Our Incredible Black November just got even better with the launch of the new Surface Go 2, exclusively available from Incredible Connection. Learn, write, sketch, and create on the go. The all-new Microsoft Surface Go 2 is your perfectly portable 2-in-1 laptop to tablet device that lets you do more and create more. With long-lasting battery life of up to 10 hours, you can tackle your daily tasks, browse your favourite sites, shop online, keep up with homework and more. This ultra-portable 2-in-1 device gives you laptop performance, tablet portability, and a striking 10.5-inch touchscreen PixelSense Display all with the power of the Intel Pentium Gold Processor 4425Y. Write and draw more naturally on screen with a Surface Pen, easily navigate through documents and websites, or enjoy beautiful Intel UHD Graphics 615 while you stream your favourite shows and movies. Weighing in at just 544g, the Surface Go 2 is not only the smallest and lightest Surface device yet, but instantly adapts and adjusts for home, travel, and everyday tasks thanks to a kickstand that works at any angle, a microSD card slot for more storage, a Surface connector to go along with its USB-C port, and a 3.5 mm headphone jack. Built-in Wi-Fi, plus optional LTE Advanced for hassle-free connectivity in areas with unsecured public, slow, or no Wi-Fi lets you keep up from anywhere. Furthermore, it sports a 5MP front-facing camera with 1080p video that works with Windows Hello for logging in securely via facial recognition. Users can make the most of Windows 10 Home in S mode by kitting their device with a Surface Go 2 Type Cover keyboard for comfortable typing anywhere and a Surface Pen with virtually no lag to help you capture your thoughts and get more done. With our incredible weekly deals in-store and daily deals online all month long, visit Incredible Connection this Black November to get all of these accessories and more. You can “tech now and pay later” with Incredible Connection’s simple credit terms and up to 24 months to pay. Credit applications can be completed online and in-store, and Incredible Connection’s staff are ready to assist you with your early approval to get your Surface Device in no time. As South Africa’s leading tech retailer, Incredible Connection has upgraded their service offering to include much more than the tech you need. When you purchase the Surface Go 2 you also get access to an Incredible 3-year extended warranty which includes Online Live Chat, Telephone Technical Support, and easy online registration. Not only do Incredible Connection’s tech specialists provide you with expert advice on everything tech but will also help set up your Surface Go 2 device, thanks to the Walk Out Working service which ensures your device is completely set up and ready to use right away. Visit your nearest Incredible Connection or simply visit incredible.co.za to find our Incredible Weekly online and in-store Black November deals on the Surface and so much more. This article was published in partnership with Incredible Connection.