South Africa’s major mobile network operators are offering a range of data deals with substantial discounts for this year’s Black Friday sale. These include several prepaid, contract, and month-to-month offers on both LTE and 5G mobile data. South Africa’s biggest mobile operator – Vodacom – is running its Black Friday deals until 1 December 2020. Among its mobile data deals are several contract packages for home and business users, the latter of which can get uncapped 10Mbps wireless Internet starting from R749. In terms of pure data deals, its main rival MTN has the biggest roster, however, with multiple prepaid and postpaid packages on its Black Friday Mega Deals promotion. MTN’s Black Friday promotions are valid until 9 December 2020. Rain is also running a limited-time promotion on its “unlimited 4G for phones” package, which has been reduced from R379 to R299 per month. This product includes uncapped data for use on a smartphone, although it does not allow for tethering the device. New Home 5G Standard sign-ups will also get the package at R479 per month for the first three months before the price will revert to the standard R699. The other two big mobile operators – Telkom and Cell C – launched their Black Friday deals on 27 November. Aside from device deals, Telkom is only offering Black Friday specials on prepaid data bundles – with the monthly 50GB Night Surfer and 100GB Night Surfer slashed to R50 and R100, respectively. These will be on offer until 29 November. With regards to data packages, Cell C has discounted several of its 24-month Smartdata contracts, which will be available until 6 December. Aside from these operators, the only other major mobile data deals are available from ISP Supersonic. It is offering the following two month-to-month deals this year: The table below summarises all the best Black Friday mobile data deals available, in order of data allocation and pricing. Note that certain deals are only available in-store, while others are exclusively offered online or via the respective contact centres. There are also several Black Friday mobile data deals exclusive to businesses. To make use of these deals, you will have to be a business owner or employee. Below are the offers that are available from Vodacom and MTN.