Criminals use Black Friday to defraud South Africans, meaning consumers should be vigilant during this period. This is according to SABRIC CEO Nischal Mewalall, who noted that opportunistic criminals revel in the Black Friday period. Mewalall said that phishing is one of the most common ways criminals try to defraud South Africans during this time. “Criminals make use of Phishing emails that request that users click on a link in the email which directs them to a “spoofed” website,” explained Mewalall. “The spoofed website looks like a legitimate online retailer complete with beautiful images and enticing taglines. Criminals use these bogus websites to harvest bank card details which they then use to make online purchases on the victim’s account.” He noted that even in situations where purchases are made and transactions go through, it could still be a scam. “If a deal seems too good to be true, it most probably is,” said Mewalall. He also noted that spoofed websites can be used to steal personal or confidential information. “A criminal may use this information to contact the victim telephonically and gain their trust so that the victim willingly divulges any information requested,” said Mewalall. “This information is then used to defraud the victim. This tactic is known as social engineering which exploits human psychology, as criminals know that the weakest link in the security chain is a human.” Managing Executive of Everyday Banking at Absa Cowyk Fox also noted that phishing is a common scam that is used by malicious parties to target its customers. Other scam techniques noted by Fox include: “Fraudsters are getting increasingly sophisticated in targeting unsuspecting customers through social engineering,” said Fox. “Fraudsters use personal data from incidents such as data breaches to impersonate banks and other legitimate organisations with the sole purpose of tricking customers into granting them access to their money and bank accounts.” Fox said that Absa will never ask customers to share their PINs, passwords, or card CVV numbers for any reason, nor will they ask customers to read out the OTP number they have received to reverse or process a transaction. “Customers are urged to always remain vigilant by reading Notify Me (SMS) notifications and verification messages thoroughly before responding to them,” he said. “If you suspect any suspicious activity, cut the call and immediately contact the Absa Fraud Hotline via the mobile banking application “Report Fraud” functionality or 0860 557 557 or +2711 501 5089. Capitec told MyBroadband that it is aware of various new tactics used by fraudsters to target South African banking clients. “In some instances, fraudsters will call you claiming to be from your bank’s fraud department, warning that there was either an attempt to commit fraud on your account or that a stop order was loaded,” said Capitec. “In order for them to block this activity, consumers are told to approve the confirmation messages sent to their banking app using their PIN.” “The fraudsters then lead the panicking consumer through the process of performing a transaction on the app, unknowingly transferring funds to the fraudster.” The bank noted that it will never call clients requesting personal details, their PIN, or asking them to approve transactions. “The best way to handle calls like these is for customers to state that they will rather go to the nearest branch to resolve the issue,” said Capitec. “Should clients suspect they have fallen victim to this scam, they are urged to contact their bank immediately to report the incident.” SABRIC offered the following tips to help South African online shoppers protect their money this Black Friday.