Overnight the pace of digital transformation accelerated, and business accomplished in a few short months what normally would have taken years. Organisations who fast tracked their transformation outperformed their peers and are better prepared for what’s next. Discover how to build an agile infrastructure that can dynamically relocate applications and workloads as your business and data needs change at this year’s South African Dell Technologies Forum 2020 online event. The event is a virtual experience that will focus on digital transformation and how organisations and technology leaders can drive innovation in today’s rapidly evolving business world, preparing organisations for what is next and ultimately helping them to remain agile. Providing practical solutions to adapting to change, Dell Technologies Forum will take place on 25 November from 10h00 to 12h00 and is accessible from anywhere for free. Hear from Dell Technologies leaders, industry visionaries, a community of experts, and even Springbok star Pieter-Steph Du Toit to discover the latest breakthrough technologies and solutions designed to meet the most pressing business challenges. The event will be hosted by Doug Woolley, Managing Director of Dell Technologies, South Africa. Woolley will set the scene touching on how new business norms and imperatives have proved to be a catalyst for remote work and a true test of business agility, necessitating digital transformation. The keynote address will be delivered by John Roese, Dell Technologies Global CTO where he will explore “How to accelerate your digital transformation” offering solutions on how to fast track transformation through business agility. “Dell Technologies Forum South Africa will feature a pre-recorded address from Michael Dell, Chairman and CEO, Dell Technologies who will share a positive message for the future.” The Dell Technologies Forum will also offer a collaborative platform in which presenters and attendees alike can connect virtually via chat, to: The results of our recent Digital Transformation Index study shows that 80% of organisations are shifting their digital transformation programs into high gear and are on the path to fast track transformation in an effort to overcome recent unprecedented disruption. Technology has been vital to helping businesses tackle challenges in new and innovative ways, continuously evolving and driving them forward. With organisations needing to constantly refine their understanding of the ‘how’ of digital transformation (depending on their digital maturity), Dell Technologies Forum will be hosting topical breakout sessions to cover just this. The Dell Technologies Forum will deliver over 27 breakout sessions covering Flexibility in IT, the digital workspace and finally innovating through data. Further to this, this virtual event will allow attendees to: Don’t miss this opportunity to explore how to transform your IT Infrastructure, enhance workload efficiency and productivity and secure your IT assets. Register now for free to experience the Dell Technologies Forum South Africa on 25 November 2020. To promote this event, MyBroadband will be giving away 10 McLaren and Dell Technologies branded light jackets. Register now using this link and attend the Dell Technologies Forum on November 25 from 10:00 – 12:00 and you could be a lucky winner.  This article was published in partnership with Dell Technologies.