Capitec has rolled out its new virtual banking card, which is available within its mobile banking app. “While other banks have made noise about their virtual cards, which are still to launch in the future, Capitec has quietly gone live with their virtual card, one of their many easy solutions for the modern consumer,” Capitec said. Capitec’s virtual card is a digital bank card that is saved on a client’s Capitec banking app. It can be used as a normal physical card for online shipping, with the added advantage that nobody can steal or duplicate it. Capitec said its virtual card is available to all of its clients and can be used to securely make payments and purchase products online. It can also be set as the default card for scan-to-pay transactions and loaded for payment onto apps such as Netflix, Takealot, and Uber. Capitec’s virtual card is free to download and to use, and there are no virtual card fees. It comprises a new virtual debit card with its own number and CVV. Clients can manage the virtual card and its limits on the Capitec app. Capitec said clients should follow the steps below to activate their virtual card: After creating a virtual card, clients can view the relevant details within the Capitec app, allowing them to make online payments using the virtual debit card. Clients should remember to set their online shopping limit to ensure the transaction goes through, Capitec said. Capitec also highlighted the following security features of its new virtual card functionality: Capitec Executive of Marketing and Communications Francois Viviers said the need for secure online transactions is particularly important with Black Friday and the festive season on its way. “This environment calls for more online shopping, even among clients who have never tried it before. We are grateful that we can provide them with an easy and safe way to shop.” “If a client has any security concerns, they can stop the virtual card in an instant and apply for a new one on our app,” Viviers said. “The virtual card’s limit can also be set by the client on our app, and can quickly be changed depending on the client’s need.”