In South Africa’s highly competitive marketplace, a service provider’s ability to deliver differentiated service offerings is vital for attracting and retaining customers. Pan-African capacity wholesale WIOCC offers its service provider clients the benefits of partnership based on its depth of experience, long-standing expertise and range of service options from which to develop flexible solution offerings – including high-performance local, Metro, national and international connectivity, high-quality IP Transit and colocation services. Contact WIOCC to learn more. Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) can now provide customers throughout South Africa with higher-quality, low latency connectivity to the global internet from an even wider range of locations, following the recent completion of a multi-million dollar enhancement to WIOCC’s unique hyperscale national network infrastructure. “Buying IP Transit from a provider with exceptional levels of diversity built into their network is critical in being able to maximise service uptime for customers”, explained Andrew Krull, Sales Manager for Southern Africa at WIOCC. As well as protecting its IP Transit services via both East and West coasts, leading capacity wholesaler WIOCC also offers additional resilience and connectivity within South Africa through: WIOCC’s IP Transit service is uncontended – meaning that the bandwidth you buy is dedicated to you, not shared with others – and is backed up with a robust Service Level Agreement. It is delivered directly over our Dense Wave Division Multiplexing (DWDM) platform to ensure the highest levels of performance and lowest latency. For international and local clients, the ability to pick up IP Transit directly at the cable landing stations in Yzerfontein and Mtunzini, in addition to at data centres across South Africa, is important as this helps both to minimise latency and increase redundancy. A single, Autonomous System (AS) delivers efficient, single-hop, low-latency access to the internet through over 150 public and private peers connected directly to major global Internet Exchanges and all the major Content Providers. To find out how an established, award-winning, hyperscale connectivity wholesaler can help you provide the high-quality, differentiated services your business needs, contact WIOCC at info@wiocc.net. This article was published in partnership with WIOCC.