The South African government’s Cybersecurity Hub, which is tasked with dealing with cybersecurity issues reported by South African residents, left its website’s security certificate in an expired state for a week. The security certificate, which ensures and displays that the connection between the website and the web browser is secured using an encrypted connection, expired on 12 November, and MyBroadband reported the issue to the government entity on 16 November. On 19 November, the Cybersecurity Hub team confirmed that it was aware the certificate was expired and was working to resolve the issue. Later in the day, it confirmed that the issue regarding the expired certificate had been resolved. The Cybersecurity Hub is mandated by the National Cybersecurity Policy Framework, which was passed by Cabinet in March 2012, and it was first established by the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services in 2015. It is run by South Africa’s Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) and says on its website that it “strives to make Cyberspace an environment where all residents of South Africa can safely communicate, socialise, and transact in confidence”. It does this by working with entities in government, the private sector, civil society, and the public, and aims to identify and counter cybersecurity threats. Its full list of responsibilities is: Given the role this entity is meant to play in the South African cybersecurity sector, it is concerning that it did not keep its security certificate updated. MyBroadband asked the entity how many incidents it receives and resolves, but it said it does not generally publish these details. “However, we can confirm that the Cybersecurity Hub receives numerous cybersecurity incidents during the course of the year, which are recorded and reported on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis,” said the Cybersecurity Hub spokesperson. “These incidents are reported by the public, national and international organisations and as part of our response we collaborate with relevant national, regional organisations, CERTs, and law enforcement agencies,” it said. However, the “Recent Vulnerabilities” listed on the website all redirect to a US Department of Commerce website, and the website still uses the header of the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services – which was merged with the Department of Communications and Digital Technologies in June 2019. Additionally, its “Awareness Portal” is labelled “South African CyberSecurity Awareness 2017”  – which elicits questions regarding how often this website is updated.