Telkom has announced that its Black Friday sale will go live at 00:01 on 27 November 2020. The sale will include big price cuts on data packages as well as contracts for new devices, the mobile network said. “These amazing offers include huge price-slashing on data packages as well as contracts for those in the market for new devices and everyone else looking to stretch their buck for great value deals,” Telkom said. “All online exclusive deals will end at midnight – 00:00 on 4 December 2020.” Telkom said it is focusing on its online shopping experience for Black Friday this year, as well as offering big savings on mobile data due to evolving customer habits. “This Black Friday especially, it is all about the most value we can give our customers in the most meaningful ways and identifying those areas of their lives that the savings will have the most impact,” said Telkom chief marketing officer Gugu Mthembu. “It is the increased demand in data by our customers that has propelled us to the number 3 largest mobile operator spot in SA; so, we are listening, and we want to continue to give them the most competitive packages in the market.” As part of its Black Friday sale, Telkom is running a competition on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter with daily winnings in the form of mobile data, starting from 2GB All-Net bundles up to 11.5GB FreeMe bundles. It will also award the following prizes at the end of the competition: “Telkom as a responsible corporate citizen has, from the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, implemented strict protocols to protect our employees and our customers from spreading the virus,” Mthembu said. “We will be ensuring strict social distancing in the stores, customers entering and queueing inside and outside, controlling the numbers of people in stores at one time, monitoring shoppers’ temperatures as well as ensuring hand sanitation and mask protocols are always adhered to.” The Telkom call centre and online queries systems will extend operating hours by two hours on Friday, 27 November 2020 and Monday, 30 November 2020 from the usual 08:00 – 18:00 time slot to 08:00 – 20:00. Below are the Telkom Black Friday contract deals the network has revealed ahead of its sale launch. The deals will be available on Friday 27 November from the Telkom website.