Huawei’s AppGallery has seen tremendous uptake both from smartphone users and developers, and now has hundreds of millions of users across the world. App Gallery continues to grow at a rate of knots and Huawei continues innovating to ensure users have access to the latest and greatest features on their smartphones. One great feature in the Huawei AppGallery is Quick Apps, which are an innovative type of app that does not need to be installed on the user’s smartphone to be used. Huawei Quick Apps are incredibly easy to use. First, you search for Quick Apps in the same place you would usually search for an app – such as the Huawei AppGallery, Huawei Assistant, and Global Search. Quick Apps will be labelled accordingly, and when you find the Quick App you’re looking for, you can simply tap “open” to begin using it. These apps function smoothly, use stylish interfaces, and offer comprehensive functions – everything you expect from a traditional app. If you wish to use the Quick App again, you can either add it to your home screen or find it through the recently-used apps screen or via push notifications. You can also download the Quick App Center, which runs and manages your Quick Apps while ensuring that you’re always using the latest version. Additionally, you can manage authorisations, notifications, and your data through the Quick App Center. Quick Apps are developed based on industry standards and support native rendering. This means they possess the advantages of both HTML5 apps and native apps. They can be developed using JavaScript and CSS, and due to their simple nature, only require about 20% of the code an equivalent native app uses. They also consume significantly less memory than a native Android app, and do not require you to use data to update your apps. There are several places where you can get Quick Apps, and one of these places is Huawei’s AppGallery. AppGallery has millions of apps that span almost anything you can think of – making it the best place to download apps for your smartphone. Click here to download the Huawei AppGallery. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.