MTN has launched an extended Black Friday sale which will last for two weeks from 20 November until 9 December 2020. The Black Friday sale will offer great savings for new and existing customers across prepaid, contract, enterprise, and mobile money (MoMo) products. “Obviously, this year is also different in that it’s a COVID-19 Black Friday,” MTN said. “In addition to MTN wanting to give more customers more value over a longer period of time, MTN’s drive to #Remake2020 is also one of the main reasons MTN has decided to extend its Black Friday deals, and where possible, to provide its offers exclusively online.” The deals available through MTN’s two-week Black Friday sale are listed below. MTN PayAsYouGo customers can buy a MiFi router bundled with 50GB of promotional data for a once-off price of R499. Customers with their own existing PayAsYouGo Routers can also get the 50GB data offer as a SIM-only deal for R199 once-off. This 50GB data bundle will be allocated as follows: These mobile broadband offers are for use in PayAsYouGo routers only, the company noted. MTN will also be running Black Friday specials on data, voice, and integrated bundles for PayAsYouGo customers. Customers can dial *142# and select “Black Friday” to see the specials. MTN said it would offer the following specials on data packages bundled with Mi-Fi routers: The mobile network will also offer Mega Plan and Sky Plan promotional deals as part of its Black Friday sale. The Mega Promo Plan offers customers both voice and data, with 25GB plus 1,500 Minutes deal available at R599 per month for 24 months, or at R499 per month over 36 months. The Sky Promo Plan, which is exclusively available online, will offer customers 60GB plus unlimited minutes, and is available for R799 per month for 24 months. MTN also said it would offer the following fixed broadband data deals for customers over the Black Friday period: MTN said it has some great deals available for South African businesses, which include the following: The company is also offering MoMo subscribers big discounts on daily and weekly data bundles during the Black Friday sale. These are shown in the table below.