Given the current global crisis, many businesses have been forced to work digitally. Some of these businesses have realised that the current situation means it is the perfect time to re-evaluate their digital processes. Your business can and should do this too – and with the help of SYSPRO ERP’s digital transformation guide, the process is made much simpler. SYSPRO, as a leading ERP provider, is expertly positioned both to write such a guide, and to provide you with an ERP solution that forms the core of your digitally-transformed business. SYSPRO’s digital transformation guide walks you through the important considerations and knowledge you require to optimise your business’s transformation. To this end, there are five main areas that the guide covers – each of which will help you along the path of digital transformation. These five sections are as follows: The ERP forms the core of a digitally transformed business. It is therefore important to pick an ERP that offers you all the important features you will need on your digital transformation journey. Some of the most important things you need from your ERP include: SYSPRO ERP offers all of these important considerations, as well as its impressive Social ERP features. SYSPRO Social ERP functions in a similar way to social media platforms, but exists within your ERP solution. It offers benefits such as easily-accessible information about your client accounts and payments via an intuitive feed, and uses machine learning technologies to detect client trends such as poor practices and fraud. Powerful bots that use technologies such as machine learning and AI also ensure that those using the ERP can access valuable information quickly and easily. SYSPRO has helped transform countless businesses with effective ERP solutions – meaning that their digital transformation guide is packed with valuable knowledge that can keep them ahead of the pack. Click here to download the guide. This article was published in partnership with Syspro.