Finance Minister Tito Mboweni is set to table Treasury’s Special Adjustment Budget on 24 June following three months of economic carnage caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Edward Kieswetter has warned that South Africa’s tax collections could decline by as much as R285 billion this year. Mboweni is now forced to find money to fund the government’s extensive stimulus packages, increased healthcare expenses and other relief measures. Bernard Sacks, tax partner at financial services group Mazars, said the finance minister needs to adjust his previously tabled budget to address the financial shortfall. The economic situation in South Africa is dire and tax collections are aggravated by the issues below. The big shortfall raises several questions, including which options are open to Mboweni to finance the government’s ongoing COVID-19 efforts and fund other budget priorities. Deloitte Africa legal tax experts Delia Ndlovu and Billy Joubert said when it comes to raising more revenues via taxes, Mboweni has a limited number of options open to him. They said hiking personal income tax, corporate tax, or value-added tax (VAT) are all unpalatable at a time when restarting the stalled economy is the government’s major priority. “In our view, tax increases are unlikely. But if this does happen, it could be on a once-off basis, for example, a levy on wealthy individuals,” said Ndlovu and Joubert. Ndlovu and Joubert said a possible revenue source for the government is a digital tax similar to the 3% that France imposed on companies such as Amazon, Netflix, and Facebook. The 3% digital services tax is in France was imposed on the gross revenues derived from digital activities from French users. US President Donald Trump subsequently threatened to slap French products which are sold in the United States with 100% duties. The threat worked, and French President Emmanuel Macron said they will hold off on the new digital tax in preference of negotiations with the United States. Ndlovu and Joubert said the probability of the government introducing a digital tax similar to France’s plan seems remote. This is partly because most countries are waiting for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to design a unified digital tax approach to be adopted globally to avoid more countries unilaterally imposing a digital tax.