The ZA Domain Name Authority (ZADNA) has launched public consultations for a possible review of the wholesale pricing structure of second-level .ZA domains. This includes co.za, org.za, net.za, and web.za. ZADNA has asked for feedback from every South African regarding the proposed wholesale fee changes. It specifically invited ZADNA members, .ZA second-level domain registry operators, .ZA registrars, registrants (i.e. holders of domain names), the South African Internet community and the South African public to comment. This is not the first time ZADNA has issued a request for submissions regarding a review of the wholesale fee structure of .ZA domains. It issued a very similar request for feedback in September 2018, even using the same wording for its disclaimer about the wholesale fee review: “It must be noted upfront that this review of the wholesale fee must not be construed to be an indication or commitment by ZADNA to change the fee upwards or downwards,” the organisation assures. “Instead, the fee review is intended to better inform ZADNA if there should be any changes to the current EPP and co.za legacy wholesale fees and if so, what those changes should be.” There is an important difference between ZADNA’s fresh call for submissions and the previous fee review consultations. Back in 2018, a battle was raging between ZADNA and the ZA Central Registry (ZACR) over wholesale pricing. Where ZADNA administrates the .ZA namespace, ZACR currently manages the second-level domains under .ZA on its behalf. ZACR also looks after .Joburg, .CapeTown, .Durban, and .Africa. The technical functions of managing these domain name spaces are outsourced to Domain Name Services (Pty.) Ltd. The dispute between ZADNA and ZACR arose when the ZADNA board resolved to increase the prices it charges the ZACR for domains from R7 to R12 per year from 1 June 2016. By the start of 2019, the matter was finally settled in favour of ZADNA. As part of the settlement, the ZACR was required to pay a portion of the money it owed ZADNA since 2016. The rest (R984,966) was written off as bad debt. Since January 2019, ZADNA has officially been charging R12 per domain per year. With ZACR having to pay R5 more per domain per year, and with the amount partially backdated to June 2016, a wholesale price increase in .ZA domain registrations seems likely. However, ZADNA reiterated that a price increase is not a certainty, and gave three options: In addition, ZADNA has asked for feedback regarding whether the annual fee for legacy registrations should be increased, or whether the legacy system should be discontinued entirely. ZADNA asked those who wished to respond to its call for comment on the wholesale pricing of .ZA to consider the following questions: ZADNA also asked respondents to consider the following questions: Regarding the third option, ZADNA asked respondents to consider the following questions: ZADNA asked those interested to submit their feedback, comments, and proposals no later than 30 June 2020 via the e-mail address provided in its request for submissions document. The document is embedded below. (function() { var scribd = document.createElement("script"); scribd.type = "text/javascript"; scribd.async = true; scribd.src = "https://www.scribd.com/javascripts/embed_code/inject.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(scribd, s); })();