High-speed Internet has become a necessity but as the demand for increasing bandwidth accelerates so too does the issue of RF pollution. The RF pollution problem is caused by an almost endless amount of RF noise created by today’s deployed gear. “Noise is usually the result of RF signals that travel too far, in unwanted directions or with wrong signal timing. This massive amount of noise is a consequence of millions of radios deployed over the last decade without considering sustainability,” said Duxbury Networking Wireless Business Unit Manager, Teresa Huysamen. “RF Elements technology delivers fast, scalable wireless while addressing the issue of RF pollution, proper use of spectrum and sustainable growth. The technology has proven to be excellent in rejecting noise, eliminating RF system loss and achieving massive scalability of wireless networks,” said Huysamen. “To achieve superior wireless performance, two key issues have to be addressed: Noise rejection and RF loss. The main reason for RF signal loss is caused by the transmission of the RF signal between the radio and antenna. Typically, signals travel via coaxial cables and connectors, where part of the signal is simply lost due to the laws of physics.” “From the point of RF loss, the use of coaxial cables and connectors is generally considered unavoidable. However, RF Elements’ TwistPort waveguide connector has no cables and no coaxial components, but rather uses a waveguide to transport the RF signal and exhibits virtually no losses in transmission,” said Huysamen. Instead of dealing with excessive amounts of noise by using complex and expensive methods, such as active filtering or GPS synchronisation, RF Elements technology focuses on the fundamentals of correct signal propagation. The goal is to remove the source of these problems, rather than just dealing with the consequences. Their revolutionary antennas, based on Horn antenna technology, do not have side lobes, thereby allowing them to reject noise. Side radiation is directly related to noise: radios transmit and receive interference from unwanted directions. The noise rejection features help to define these antennas as a new class of wireless in performance, cost and spectrum efficiency. By solving the issues of RF noise and RF loss, RF Elements unlocks a completely new dimension of wireless networking. WISPs now can meet the increasing customer demands for connectivity by deploying more sectors with much higher density. “They increase the granularity of their networks, and they can achieve it at no premium. With RF Elements technology, ISPs can instantly multiply the performance of their networks and the value that they can deliver to their customers,” said Huysamen. For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, duxbury.co.za This article was published in partnership with Duxbury Networking.