Microsoft has launched a new application for Windows 10 which allows users to recover accidentally deleted files. The app is named File Recovery, and it is available to download from the Microsoft Store. According to Microsoft, the app is specifically designed to search drive data for deleted photos, documents, videos, and a number of other files. “Accidentally deleted an important file? Wiped clean your hard drive? Unsure of what to do with corrupted data? Windows File Recovery can help recover your personal data,” the app’s description states. “For photos, documents, videos, and more, Windows File Recovery supports many file types to help ensure that your data is not permanently lost.” Microsoft added that File Recovery also supports recovering deleted files from external storage devices such as microSD cards and USB drives. Support for drives which use different file systems to NTFS is enabled through the app’s Signature mode. “Recovering from a camera or SD card? Try Signature mode, which expands beyond NTFS recovery and caters to your storage device needs,” Microsoft said. “Let this app be your first choice for helping to find what you need from your hard drive, SSD, USB drive, or memory cards.” On its file recovery support page, Microsoft notes that if you want to increase your chances of recovering a file, you should minimise or avoid using your computer. “In the Windows file system, the space used by a deleted file is marked as free space, which means the file data can still exist and be recovered,” Microsoft said. “But any use of your computer can create files, which may overwrite this free space at any time.” File Recovery is not the only new application to become available to Windows 10 users in recent weeks – Microsoft’s Chromium-based Edge Internet browser began rolling out to users through Windows Update at the beginning of June. This new version of Microsoft Edge is built on the Chromium web engine, which is the same framework that Google Chrome is built on, although Microsoft’s browser includes a number of unique features, such as support for 4K Netflix playback. After users install the Windows Update, the new version of Microsoft Edge will be pinned to their taskbar. If the older version of Microsoft Edge is already pinned, it will be replaced.