South Africa’s strict and prolonged lockdown has caused havoc on the local economy, with current estimates suggesting a GDP decline of between 7% and 17%. The National Treasury further predicted that between 3 and 7 million jobs will be lost because of the extended lockdown, pushing the unemployment rate to record highs. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown is already seen in many industries, with businesses going into business rescue or even closing their doors. Two of the high-profile casualties of the lockdown include Comair and Edcon, which have entered voluntary business rescue. Many small and medium-sized businesses, like Caxton Magazines, Associated Media Publishing, and Rebel Tech, were forced to shut down. The struggling economy and financial strain on businesses have had a knock-on effect on South African IT companies. Apart from losing clients because of businesses going under, others cannot pay their suppliers during the lockdown because they could not operate and generate revenue. This had a knock-on effect on IT providers, which are now faced with mounting bad debts and potential cash flow problems, which forced them to react. EOH was one of the first to respond to the economic downturn and implemented stringent measures at the beginning of April to dramatically cut costs and manage liquidity. EOH CEO Stephen Van Coller said their key focus is to manage the business in an environment where they can expect a substantial drop in revenue. He anticipated a drop in cash receivables from their clients and significant future uncertainty on the full impact of COVID-19 on the economy and EOH. Many others have followed suit in the coming weeks by implementing salary cuts, short time, forced leave, and staff cuts. MyBroadband spoke to South Africa’s largest ICT companies and it was clear that all businesses face an uncertain future. Adapt IT told MyBroadband because its clients in the hospitality sector were negatively impacted by lockdown, 20% of its employees were unable to work or perform their regular duties. “We are currently in consultation with 4% of our permanent staff who may be negatively affected,” the company said. “Through this consultative process, we aim to be as transparent as possible, and to ensure that the process is fair.” Dimension Data said it is focussed on “responsible fiscal management and will ensure that our revenue to cost ratios are correctly balanced at all times, making necessary adjustments as required”. “For example, we have frozen all new hiring, stopped property refurbishment projects, curtailed all discretionary spend, and placed all salary reviews and interim salary adjustments on hold,” Dimension Data said. The good news is that some ICT sectors, like telecommunications, were not as severely impacted by the lockdown as others. This means companies like Vodacom, MTN, Rain, Blue Label Telecoms, and Telkom did not have to cut staff or reduce salaries during the lockdown. Blue Label Telecoms told MyBroadband it continues to support all its subsidiaries and has not implemented any retrenchment or pay cuts to date. “Many of the products we distribute across the country are fairly defensive including electricity, airtime and data and we are doing everything possible to innovate to get these products to our customers digitally so they don’t have to leave their homes,” Blue Label Telecoms said. “Clearly, should the lockdown persist indefinitely, and economic conditions continue to adversely impact ourselves and our customers, hard decisions regarding retrenchments will have to be made.” The table below provides an overview of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the extended lockdown on South Africa’s top ICT companies. It should be noted that some of the companies opted not to comment on their work-from-home policies, salary cuts, or retrenchments.