The COVID-19 Economists Group, convened by Miriam Altman, has published a paper outlining four scenarios for the South African economy amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. The paper, titled “Top COVID-19 policy priorities for protecting employment”, said it is within South Africa’s power to limit the damage of the pandemic. Altman, the commissioner in the National Planning Commission of the presidency, told Business Day TV the pandemic has worsened South Africa’s already struggling economic landscape. South Africa entered the COVID-19 pandemic with 29% unemployment, over 40% living in poverty, and the highest rate of inequality in the world. This is all set to rise. Limiting the damage caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown will require an “enormous effort”, Altman said. She said South Africa needs to get back to economic activity as soon as possible, adding that it has to be done responsibly. She said a balance must be found between containing the virus and other health, social, and economic imperatives in a way that is mutually reinforcing. The paper proposed moving from a centrally regulated approach that controls activity to enabling communities and businesses to adhere to the protocols required to contain the virus. It said the focus should now be on three top priorities to ensure that the return to work is sustained and employment is protected: “Neither a lockdown nor an economic opening will be successful without the first two priorities. The third priority is essential to the success of an economic rebound,” the paper said. The COVID-19 Economists Group prepared four scenarios which consider the possible economic impacts of different COVID-19 policy response packages. The scenarios revolve around various issues, including: The COVID-19 Economists Group said there is only one correct choice in these four – the final scenario. “It pulls through to structural change and some hope of achieving the spirit of the NDP’s Vision 2030 for employment and poverty reduction,” they said. The other scenarios offer some thoughts on potential risk that are within South Africa’s power to avoid. Altman highlighted that the worst-case scenario listed in the table below is not the worst that can happen. “There could be domestic reverberations into the banking sector, exacerbating a banking crisis, or more dramatic shifting to reduce labour ratios or political cleavages that deepen as resources become ever more scarce,” she said. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>