Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has published an amendment to the National State of Disaster regulations which detail the advanced level 3 lockdown rules announced by Cyril Ramaphosa on 17 June. Ramaphosa previously said that following consultation with scientists and provincial governments, the cabinet has decided to ease restrictions on a number of economic activities. The directive detailing these rules was published on 25 June and provides more details on the businesses which may reopen under the country’s advanced level 3 lockdown and the limitations which they will be subject to after they reopen. While the directive states that business sectors such as restaurants are allowed to open, it does not provide specific directions for their reopening. The directive also includes a number of new changes, including a restriction on the number of people that may exercise in a group. It also provides specific restrictions for the reopening of businesses including cinemas, restaurants, and more. The regulations have updated the rules around leaving your house to exercise or obtain essential goods, stating that South Africans may now leave their place of residence for the following reasons: It is interesting to note that exercise in groups of greater than four people is now expressly prohibited under the new regulations. The regulations further added that the movement of people between provinces remains prohibited except in certain cases, including permit-holding employees performing work or services allowed under level 3, people who are moving residence, members of Parliament, students who are commuting to school, citizens seeking medical attention, and people who are attending funerals. The regulations detail the circumstances under which restaurants, casinos, cinemas, theatres, and a number of other new activities allowed to resume operation under the advanced lockdown rules will be allowed to reopen. Dlamini-Zuma also explicitly named businesses that will remain closed under level 3 lockdown – including gyms and fitness centres, night clubs, unlicensed accommodation, conference facilities, bars and taverns, and public beaches and parks. “All persons who are able to work from home must do so,” the regulations said. “However, persons will be permitted to perform any type of work outside the home, and to travel to and from work and for work purposes under Alert Level 3, subject to strict compliance with health protocols and social distancing measures and the return to work being phased-in in order to put in place measures to make the workplace COVID -19 ready.” According to the regulations, the businesses that will be allowed to reopen include the following, subject to the limitations listed below: