Having a great smartphone app is critical for companies to grow and prosper in the new business environment. Without a strong mobile strategy, a business will lose ground to its competitors and struggle in the post-COVID-19 world. With the rapid growth of smartphone usage in South Africa in particular, a well-designed smartphone app is now a must-have for many businesses. Smartphone apps improve communication with clients, create customer loyalty, and give a company a competitive edge. It is also crucial for a business to have their smartphone app on the home screen of their clients’ smartphones – as it is the best marketing real estate you can get. This is why many businesses are investing in new smartphone apps, or improving on their current apps. It is not only online business-to-consumer apps like Uber and Airbnb which are changing the way people interact with companies, however. Many businesses have launched their own internal apps to improve their operational efficiency and increase staff productivity. This is particularly important in the current environment where remote working has become the norm. Internal company apps offer secure communications, company alerts, location-based task tracking, and task automation. To build a new smartphone app is a daunting task for many businesses, who often do not know where to start. Fortunately, Codehesion can help. Codehesion is South Africa’s premier smartphone app development company and can take care of everything for you – including planning, designing, building, and launching the app. Their experienced app developers also help companies with the strategy around the app, advice on which features to include, and listing it on the Google Play and Apple App store. Codehesion CEO Hector Beyers said their experience helps them guide clients on which type of app will work best for their business. Beyers encouraged companies who are looking for a new Android or iOS app to contact them via their website. Codehesion offers South African businesses a free and easy consultation process which removes all risk, stated Beyers. For a risk-free consultation: Contact Codehesion here This article was published in partnership with Codehesion.