Ransomware attacks are a major problem for businesses and organisations around the world. According to the Sophos 2020 State of Ransomware Report, 51% of organisations were hit by ransomware attacks in the past year. 73% of these attacks resulted in the successful encryption of organisation data, the report states. It noted that 94% of organisations who had their data encrypted got it back, with almost twice as many organisations achieving this through backups as opposed to paying a ransom. In its IT Threat Evolution report for Q1 2020, SecureList from Kaspersky highlighted that there is no reason to expect the frequency of ransomware attacks to decrease. It also noted that more ransomware attacks are supplementing encryption with data theft. “To date, this tactic has been adopted by distributors of ransomware families, including Maze, REvil/Sodinokibi, DoppelPaymer and JSWorm/Nemty/Nefilim,” said SecureList. “If the victim refuses to pay the ransom for decryption (because, say, the data was recovered from a backup copy), the attackers threaten to put the stolen confidential information in the public domain.” It noted that while many of these threats are empty, some ransomware programs have set up websites that will publish this data. It also provided the 10 most common families of ransomware trojans, with WannaCry topping the list and accounting for nearly one in five infections. 2020 has seen numerous ransomware attacks affect major organisations and businesses. Recently, Garmin was the victim of a major ransomware attack that forced a number of its services offline for several days. The incident is widely believed to have been caused by the WastedLocker ransomware, which is promulgated by Russian hacking group Evil Corp. The head of Evil Corp, Maksim Yakubets, is the subject of a $5-million FBI bounty and is believed to be behind various other huge attacks on American companies and the American banking system – with attacks on the latter causing over $100 million in financial damages. Garmin reportedly paid a ransom worth millions of dollars through a third party – ransomware negotiation business Arete Incident Response (Arete IR). Arete IR was reportedly Garmin’s second choice after the first choice refused to negotiate ransom payments for fear of contravening sanctions imposed by the US government. In response to the attack, Head of e-crime at Mimecast Carl Wearn said that to minimise the threat of ransomware attacks, organisations must implement resiliency measures to preserve business-as-usual should the worst happen. “Non-networked backups and a fallback email and archiving process need to become standard security measures if organisations are to significantly mitigate ransomware threats,” said Wearn. “This particular attack is also worrying because of the type of data that could be lost, including both location and personal health data.” Ransomware attacks are not only promulgated by independent entities, however. Kaspersky analysis has discovered that prominent state-sponsored North Korean advanced persistent threat (APT) group Lazarus is operating its own ransomware. “The move by Lazarus, to create and distribute ransomware, signifies a change of strategy and indicates a readiness to enter the big hunt for financial gain, which is highly unusual among state-sponsored APT groups,” said Kaspersky. Kaspersky referenced two separate investigations involving VHD ransomware which were conducted between March and May 2020. The first incident, which occurred in Europe, did not give many hints about who had executed the attack. However, Kaspersky noted that the spreading techniques were similar to those used by APT groups, which is what kept its investigation team curious. “In addition, the attack did not fit the usual modus operandi of known big-game hunting groups. Also, the fact that a very limited number of VHD ransomware samples were available – coupled with very few public references – indicated that this ransomware family might not be traded widely on dark market forums, as would usually be the case,” said Kaspersky. Kaspersky said that the second incident provided a “complete picture of the infection chain” and helped the researchers link the ransomware strain to Lazarus. “While it is obvious that the group cannot match the efficiency of other cybercriminal gangs with this hit-and-run approach to targeted ransomware, the fact that it has turned to such types of attacks is worrisome,” said Kaspersky. “The global ransomware threat is big enough as it is, and often has significant financial implications for victim organisations up to the point of rendering them bankrupt.” To reduce the risk of being exposed to ransomware, Kaspersky offered the following recommendations: Head of e-crime at Mimecast Carl Wearn provided the following advice: