Samsung has made a breakthrough in its production of mobile memory chips, commencing mass production of the industry’s first 16-gigabit LPDDR5 mobile DRAM. This process is enabled via extreme ultraviolet (EUV) technology, and the chips are built on Samsung’s third-generation 10nm (1z) process. Samsung said its new 16Gb LPDDR5 technology boasts higher mobile memory mobile performance and larger capacity than any of its predecessors. “The 1z-based 16Gb LPDDR5 elevates the industry to a new threshold, overcoming a major developmental hurdle in DRAM scaling at advanced nodes,” said Samsung Electronics executive vice president of DRAM Product and Technology Jung-bae Lee. “We will continue to expand our premium DRAM lineup and exceed customer demands, as we lead in growing the overall memory market.” Samsung’s new LPDDR5 memory boasts data transfer speeds of 6,400Mbps – 16% faster than the 12Gb LPDDR5 used in most of today’s flagship smartphones. The company said that when configured in a 16GB package, its LPDDR5 memory can transfer 51.2GB of data in one second. The LPDDR5 package is also 30% thinner than its predecessors, which will allow flagship and foldable smartphone manufacturers to pack more functionality into a slim design. “The 16Gb LPDDR5 can build a 16GB package with only eight chips, whereas its 1y-based predecessor requires 12 chips (eight 12Gb chips and four 8Gb chips) to provide the same capacity,” Samsung said. The company added that its new memory chips would begin appearing in smartphones next year. “By delivering the first 1z-based 16GB LPDDR5 package to global smartphone makers, Samsung plans to further strengthen its presence in the flagship mobile device market throughout 2021.” Samsung said it will also expand the use of its LPDDR5 offerings into automotive applications, offering an extended temperature range to meet safety and reliability standards in extreme environments. The company added that it would expand its Pyeongtaek manufacturing facility, which will serve as the manufacturing hub for advanced semiconductor technologies such as next-generation D-RAM and V-NAND solutions. Spanning more than 128,900m2, Samsung’s Pyeongtaek Line 2 is the largest-scale semiconductor production line to date.