AMD and Intel have been the two giants of the desktop and laptop markets for a long time. Intel has historically boasted a larger market share than AMD, but AMD has been making great headway in shrinking the gap over the past few years. AMD’s most recent range of Ryzen processors – the 3000XT range – uses an optimised 7nm manufacturing process to deliver higher boost frequency and increased performance at the same thermal design power (TDP) as their predecessors. This has made them a popular option for many users, particularly as Intel processors do not yet use the 7nm manufacturing process. Intel recently said that the launch of 7nm CPUs is likely to be delayed by a further six months and they are now only expected to go on sale at the end of 2022 or in early 2023. Historically, one of the biggest benefits of AMD equipment was that they were more affordable than their Intel equivalents. However, a recent investigation by MyBroadband uncovered that this is no longer the case, with AMD and Intel processors with similar specifications now being similarly priced. However, despite losing its pricing advantage, AMD’s CPU market share has actually increased in recent years. This is a testament to how much AMD has improved its image within the market and is good news for customers as they now have two elite options when buying a CPU. To track how the battle between AMD and Intel has progressed over the years, CPUBenchmark.net tracks the number of benchmark tests performed from both AMD and Intel CPUs and updates this data daily. This gives a good indication of how popular each of these processor brands is and shows interesting trends. Additional details worth noting before reading these graphs include the following: The data shows that AMD and Intel had very similar market shares towards the end of 2005, after which Intel broke away and consistently boasted market share upwards of 70%. However, since 2019, AMD has clawed back a significant amount of market share, with the latest data seeing it tend towards a 40% market share, while Intel runs the risk of dipping below 60% market share for the first time since 2006. This is particularly driven by AMD’s desktop CPU market share, which is 48.3% as of Q3 2020 compared to the 51.7% of Intel. Intel continues to dominate the laptop CPU market share, although AMD threatens to exceed 20% market share for the first time since 2011. AMD’s server market share is negligible, however, sitting at just 1.9% as of Q3 2020. This data can be viewed below.