It has been said that all good things come to an end, this Idiom is often used as a proverb and is a wise reminder that all good things are temporary. As with all good things in life there is a time. It is in this light that we wish to inform you that support for Microsoft Office 2010 is ending as of October 2020. What this will mean for you is that you will no longer receive Office 2010 support from Microsoft. You will no longer receive security updates, which help to protect your PC from harmful viruses, spyware, and other malicious software. You will no longer receive phone or chat technical support, and no further updates to support content. In fact, most online help content will be retired. You will also no longer be able to download Office 2010 from the Microsoft website. You may very well be asking the question, “Why is Microsoft doing this?” Microsoft Office 2010, like most Microsoft products, has a support lifecycle during which we provide new features, bug fixes, security fixes, and so on. This lifecycle typically lasts for 10 years from the date of the product’s initial release. The next question a panicked small business owner will be asking is what are my options? “Although you will still be able to use your version of Microsoft Office 2010, I would recommend upgrading to a newer version such as Office Home & Business 2019, so that you can stay up to date with all the latest features, patches, and security updates, said Lizelle Sageantes, Sales Executive for the Microsoft line of business at Mustek Limited.” A business could be exposed to serious and potentially harmful security risks without the availability of the required support. This is the main reason for investing in a genuine copy of Office Home & Business 2019, but let’s not forget about all the newly added features to the Office Suite that you know and love; making productivity and ease of use a priority. Lizelle and her team have been helping businesses prepare for End of Support by aiding with their upgrade to Office Home & Business 2019 and Windows 10 Pro on a modern device, helping you keep your business safe and taking advantage of all the new improvements made over the last decade. Lizelle explains that Office Home & Business 2019 provides you with a subset of features that Microsoft has been adding to Office 365 over the past three years. Office Home & Business 2019 is a local version of Office software, rather than cloud based. It is a perpetual release, meaning that you purchase the product once and own it forever instead of paying for a subscription or multiple subscriptions to use it. This version has been designed for business users. It comes with volume licensing and is best for companies that do not want to use the cloud-based version of Office. You can also install  Office Home & Business 2019 apps on all your mobile devices, where you will have access to its basic features. It affords SMB’s the opportunity to drive business growth by saving time dealing with internal administrative issues, by keeping them well organised by providing them with the intelligent tools that are required to support them to do what they are required to do which is run their businesses. By using Office Home & Business 2019, small business owners become the shiny star as they now can create great looking presentations easily by utilising new features like Designer, Zoom and Morph in Power Point. Another stellar feature for small businesses is a Focused Inbox for Outlook, which helps you stay focused and on track by prioritising emails. It is known that 55% of SMB’s in the United States have been subjected to cyber security attacks which has become another pressing area of concern for small businesses. They do not have the know how to address the complexity of cyber security. Microsoft employs the use of Intelligent Security Graph, where some 400 billion emails get analysed by Outlook and Microsoft 365 email services each month. What it translates to is that 1.2 billion devices get security scanned on a month by month basis by Windows Defender. This is done by integrating Office Home & Business 2019, Enterprise Mobility and Security, and Windows 10 on a modern device, SMBs can strike the balance between maximising efficiency and protection. At Mustek we provide SMBs with a lifeline, helping SMB’s navigate this terrain, ensuring they make the best choices for their businesses when it comes to their ICT infrastructure and software installations. For further information on upgrading your current device to a Modern Device with Windows 10 Pro integrated with Office Home & Business 2019 contact Mustek Sales on 011-237-1000 or mail Lizelle Sageantes Lizelles@mustek.co.za This article was published in partnership with Mustek Microsoft.