MTN recently launched its 5G network in South Africa, rolling out coverage at multiple sites across Johannesburg, Cape Town, and Bloemfontein. The operator plans to continue expanding its 5G network across the country in the future and said its customers will soon enjoy coverage everywhere they go. MTN currently offers its 5G service in two main variants: For small and medium-sized businesses in South Africa, this next-generation of mobile network connectivity offers several substantial benefits over current technologies. 5G can produce extremely fast download and upload speeds and is capable of competing with fibre connectivity. MTN Business’ 5G Wi-Fi, for example, delivers average speeds of 100Mbps and peak speeds of 500Mbps. 5G mobile offers average speeds of 50Mbps and peak speeds of 500Mbps. Being able to use the Internet at these speeds will empower businesses and their employees to access the data and resources they need in the blink of an eye. Additionally, backing up data to the cloud will take seconds, rather than minutes. Another key characteristic of 5G is that it boasts low latency, which means the time between a request being sent from a device to the requested data arriving or action being completed is very short. This is excellent news for mission-critical use cases which require lightning-quick responsiveness. 5G networks also allow for a higher number of devices to be connected in the same area. This means that during periods of heavy demand, network performance will not degrade as significantly as with LTE. With reliable and fast broadband Internet essential for a business to serve its customers and keep everyday operations going, this robust connectivity is crucial. Additionally, 5G will also enable businesses to roll out elaborate smart IoT networks in warehouses and across their assets in the future, enabling better monitoring capabilities. MTN offers a range of 5G smartphones and routers to get your business connected to the fastest mobile network around. Equip yourself and your employees with lightning-quick connectivity today – connect to MTN 5G. Click here to learn more about MTN’s 5G network and products. This article was published in partnership with MTN Business.