Minister of Cooperative Governance and Corporate Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has published the official alert level 2 lockdown regulations for South Africa. This follows after an address by President Cyril Ramapahosa on Saturday 15 August, where the President made the announcement that the country would move to COVID-19 alert level 2 from midnight on Monday 16 August. Changes under this alert level include a lifting of the nationwide ban on the sale and distribution of alcohol and cigarettes. The mandatory wearing of masks and the national curfew will remain in place, however. In the published regulations, Dlamini-Zuma confirmed that COVID-19 alert level 2 will apply nationally from 00:01 on 18 August 2020. This document provides more detail on the restrictions placed upon bars and other areas of the economy which have now been opened. It has also removed mention of a ban on the sale of tobacco products as alluded to on Saturday by President Ramaphosa. The major changes to the regulations are summarised below. Movement of persons – Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 22:00 until 04:00 daily, except where a person has been granted a permit, which corresponds with Form 2 of Annexure A, to perform a service other than a service related to an activity listed under Table 3, or is attending to a security or medical emergency. A person: All gatherings are prohibited except a gathering at: The sale of liquor by licensed premises for off-site consumption is permitted from 09:00 to 17:00, from Mondays to Thursdays. A licensed premises may also sell liquor for on-site consumption, subject to strict adherence to the curfew. The sale of tobacco products has been removed from the list of economic exclusions. Bus and taxi services – may not carry more than 70% of the licensed capacity for long-distance travel. However, they may carry 100% of the licensed capacity for any trip not regarded as long-distance travel. A driver, owner or operator of public transport may not allow any member of the public not wearing a face mask, to board or be conveyed in a public transport owned or operated by him or her. The full directive is embedded below. 