President Cyril Ramaphosa has gazetted a directive which determines the salaries of the chairperson and councillors for the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA). The document was published on 28 August 2020 and retroactively defines the total remuneration for appointed councillors and the authority’s chairperson. “I hereby determine that, with effect from 1 April 2019, the salaries and allowances of the Chairperson and councillors of the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa shall be as set out in the attached Schedule,” Ramaphosa said. The schedules subsequently outlined the pay levels, position, and total remuneration of ICASA councillors and the authority’s chairperson. According to the new directive, the chairperson of ICASA will now earn a total remuneration of R1,880,736, while the councillors will earn R1,486,878. These remuneration figures are detailed in the table below. Dr Keabetswe Modimoeng is the current acting chairperson of ICASA, and his name was among four others’ that were recently appointed as ICASA councillors for the next four years by Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams. The list of names includes Peter Zimri, who had previously served at ICASA from April 2016 until June 2020. The other appointments are former Independent Broadcasting Authority councillor Advocate Luthando Mkumatela, ICT regulatory and policy expert Yolisa Kedama, and Charles Lewis, an independent ICT regulation and policy analyst. The councillors will be appointed for a period of four years with effect from the date of assumption of duty, Ndabeni-Abrahams stated. Ndabeni-Abrahams received criticism over her appoint of five councillors instead of the six decided on by the National Assembly, and shortly thereafter appointed the sixth member of the council. DA MP Phumzile Van Damme said that Ndabeni-Abraham’s decision contravened the Constitution, ICASA Act, the Executive Members’ Act, and the Powers and Privileges Act. “Ndabeni-Abrahams’ bizarre and unlawful conduct during the appointment process to fill six vacancies on the ICASA Council has been nothing short of embarrassing,” Van Damme said.