Microsoft is working on a new feature for Windows 10 that will help you to save space on your computer, Softpedia News reports. This feature will allow the operating system to archive apps that are installed but are not being used any more. This reduces the amount of space taken up by dormant apps on your computer and allows this space to be used for other purposes. When users try to launch an app that has been archived, Windows 10 will go online, redownload the application, and add your files and settings from the previous installation. While this means it will take longer to reopen these apps, it also means that when the app does open, it should continue to operate as per usual. One problem which has not been answered by Microsoft is what happens if an archived app is no longer available to download. If Windows cannot access the files to download upon the launch of the archived app, this would presumably mean that the archived app would no longer be accessible. It is worth noting that this feature is not yet live on the current iteration of Windows 10 and is still being tested by a limited number of users. It is, therefore, possible that this feature will not be implemented into the live version of Windows 10. Microsoft is testing other ways to improve its storage system in Windows 10. The company recently published Windows 10 Build 20197 and highlighted changes that are coming to disk management. These changes make it much easier for users to manage their disks and partition volumes by enabling this functionality through the Settings App. “This includes tasks such as viewing disk information, creating and formatting volumes, and assigning drive letters,” said Microsoft. There were also references in the latest build to the Windows 10 Start Menu and Action Centre being allowed to use components from WinUI moving forward. WinUI is an advanced user interface that can be used to build Windows apps, with the latest version expanding to become a fully-fledged standalone UI framework.