Mimecast Limited, a leading email and data security company, today announced it has acquired eTorch Inc. (d/b/a MessageControl), a messaging security provider with solutions designed to help stop social engineering and human identity attacks with the use of machine learning technology. The acquisition of MessageControl strengthens Mimecast’s Email Security 3.0 strategy that is designed to improve cybersecurity at the email perimeter, inside the organisation and beyond the perimeter. The powerful combination of Mimecast and MessageControl is engineered to provide customers using productivity apps, such as Microsoft 365, even stronger protection against advanced phishing and impersonation attacks. Additionally, it is designed to prevent the inadvertent loss of sensitive and confidential data, while also serving as an additional sensor to further enrich Mimecast’s threat intelligence. The addition of MessageControl brings the following key capabilities: “The first half of 2020 has been unlike anything we’ve experienced before. It’s becoming increasingly clear that better innovation is required to protect against the latest weaponised and unweaponised attacks,” said Peter Bauer, chief executive officer at Mimecast. “MessageControl is a natural complement to Mimecast’s suite of cyber resilience solutions – from email and web security through brand protection, security awareness training, and data protection. Its artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities will offer additional layers of defence by evolving and ‘learning’ the customer environment and user behaviours over time.  We believe this acquisition allows Mimecast to continue to evolve our Email Security 3.0 strategy and provide the best protection for productivity cloud applications like Microsoft 365.” Recent research from Mimecast found that impersonation fraud, phishing, and internal threats or data leaks are all on the rise – with South African IT and security leaders responding that they’ve seen the volume of each increase (46%, 53% and 35% respectively) over the last year. MessageControl’s innovative machine learning is engineered to reveal the hidden risks of email communications by inserting real-time warnings into anomalous emails to help prevent advanced phishing and impersonation attacks. “Mimecast’s portfolio of solutions offers MessageControl the opportunity to expand its reach to protect even more organisations against the advanced threats plaguing the market today,” said Paul Everton, founder and chief technology officer, MessageControl. “We’re excited to join the Mimecast team as we continue on our mission to stop social engineering and human identity attacks.” The acquisition of MessageControl is not expected to have a material financial impact to Mimecast’s Fiscal 2021 Revenue or Adjusted EBITDA. Mimecast (NASDAQ: MIME) was born in 2003 with a focus on delivering relentless protection. Each day, we take on cyber disruption for our tens of thousands of customers around the globe; always putting them first, and never giving up on tackling their biggest security challenges together. We are the company that built an intentional and scalable design ideology that solves the number one cyberattack vector – email. We continuously invest to thoughtfully integrate brand protection, security awareness training, web security, compliance and other essential capabilities. Mimecast is here to help protect large and small organisations from malicious activity, human error and technology failure; and to lead the movement toward building a more resilient world. Learn more about us at mimecast.com. This article was published in partnership with Mimecast.