Global sports streaming service DAZN has announced that it will expand to more than 200 countries and territories. The first global event on the platform will be Canelo Alvarez’s fight during Cinco de Mayo Weekend, which will take place on Saturday 2 May. DAZN said the first phase of its global expansion will be an English-language offering focused on boxing which is empowered by the company’s investment into the sport over the past two years. DAZN holds international rights to many of the world’s top promotional companies, including Golden Boy Promotions, Matchroom Boxing USA, and GGG Promotions. Fighters such as Alvarez and Gennadiy “GGG” Golovkin will be part of a year-round portfolio of premium fights and original programming on the service. “Beginning this spring, most of the world will have access to DAZN and its unmatched schedule of boxing events,” said DAZN group executive chairman John Skipper. “Our roster of championship fighters represents some of the world’s most popular athletes and we’ll be working with them to stage spectacular international events for years to come.” “Since our launch in 2016, we’ve seen an encouraging level of interest around our key events from both international fans and potential partners, which highlighted the opportunity to capitalize on our existing rights portfolio within boxing to fuel our expansion,” said DAZN executive vice president Joseph Markowski. “Establishing DAZN as the global home of fight sports is just the first step and we couldn’t think of a better attraction for our inaugural event than Canelo’s traditional Cinco de Mayo Weekend fight.” The company did not explicitly state whether South Africa would be among the 200 countries to which it is expanding. To date, the platform has launched services in nine countries – Austria, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, Switzerland, and the United States. Pricing for each of the new countries will be announced in the coming weeks. “For fans outside of DAZN’s existing markets that are interested in gaining early access to the service via the DAZN beta community, registration is open at DAZN.com,” the company said. “Official invites will be sent out later this month.”