Even Flow Distribution has been appointed as an official distributor for Ubiquiti in Africa, which will provide its partners with access to Ubiquiti’s range of world-class network solutions and products. Ubiquiti specialises in wireless communication products for both enterprises and broadband providers – with a strong focus on under-served and emerging markets. This strong market position will now be complemented by Even Flow’s experience in the distribution space to drive the adoption of Ubiquiti solutions in Africa. “Even Flow’s vast experience in the product category, and our position as a subsidiary of Epsidon Technology Distribution, makes Even Flow ideally suited to expand the Ubiquiti brand throughout South Africa and the rest of Africa,” said Adrian Bush, Director of Even Flow Distribution. Furthermore, this partnership adds to Even Flow’s existing portfolio of leading global vendors in the networking space – and made perfect sense considering Ubiquiti’s experience in a wide range of vertical markets. Bush said that while Ubiquiti is a strong player in the wireless ISP space, there is a “growing demand” for its UniFi Enterprise System. This is thanks to the scalability, performance, and unique cloud controller that is built into Ubiquiti’s solution. “UniFi delivers a breakthrough combination of performance, reliability, and scalability – along with top performance-to-price value,” said Zack Powell, Channel Manager for Ubiquiti Networks. This perfectly hits the “sweet spot” for users, he said, adding that intuitive management software with a modern GUI is also bundled with the UniFi hardware at no extra cost. Additionally, Even Flow will enhance the value it offers to partners by providing free training and upskilling services that will allow them to better sell the products and solutions Even Flow offers. Initial training, upskilling related to a product suite, pre-sales scoping of a project, after-sales support, and financing advice for projects are all included as part of this service, said Even Flow. With South Africa and Africa struggling to overcome the “digital divide”, this partnership to drive access to the latest technology solutions – including reliable wireless networks – at better price points is a much-needed one, concluded the company. For more information on Even Flow and its partnership with Ubiquiti, visit the Even Flow website. This article was published in partnership with Even Flow.