People looking to buy a car, often contemplate whether they should buy their next car brand-new or whether they should consider buying second-hand. People often assume that spending a large amount of money to buy a brand-new car is worth it. We would like to challenge that thought. The moment a brand-new car leaves the showroom floor, it loses approximately 10% of its value. This means that if you just bought a car for R230,000, you would pay R23,000 in order to drive away with the vehicle. That is a large amount of money that you will never see again. The average new car depreciates by 25% at the end of its first year. This means that for the same vehicle (costing R230,000), you lose R57,500 after only driving it for one year. After its first year, the average vehicle continues to depreciate by 17.5% every following year. When buying a well-kept, pre-owned car, you will save a large amount of money. Unfortunately, not every owner takes as good care of their car as they should, and it is important to never settle for just any pre-owned car. ­ When you buy a pre-owned vehicle that is in a poor condition only because it fits your budget, it might cost you more than it will save you in the long run. In fact, making a hasty decision to buy a pre-owned car can be an expensive mistake and with all the expensive repair-work that might need to be done, you will end up with a vehicle that you can neither use, nor sell. Taking out a warranty with your used car, will protect you against the beforementioned and when buying a financeable pre-owned vehicle from WeBuyCars, you can choose from their wide selection of warranties and service plans. Even though it is impossible to know exactly how well the previous owner took care of their car, some things almost always give it away. At WeBuyCars, there are thousands of vehicles available in various conditions, price ranges and with differing year models. With the help of their sales executives, you can inspect, and test drive any vehicle you are interested in. With WeBuyCars, you can save a large amount of money, while getting the car of your dreams. Visit webuycars.co.za to view all the vehicles they currently have in stock, nationwide. This article was published in partnership with WeBuyCars.