Dark Fibre Africa (DFA) has long been an industry leader in developing forward-thinking solutions to enabling and accelerating the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) in South Africa. The company’s open-access approach has been revolutionary for the South African telecommunications market, and it has proven to be a key driver for digital disruption in the country. DFA Mergers and Acquisitions, Strategy, and Innovation executive Vino Govender states that the improved availability of high-speed broadband services in South Africa has been instrumental in enabling the development of digital platforms in the country. “South Africa is not insulated from the digital disruption that we see taking place globally,” Govender said. “Entrenched retailers including Stuttafords, Jenny Button, and Hilton have closed their doors while online retailers such as Spree, Runway, Superbalist, and Zando continue to increase sales volumes, revenue and market share in the retail categories that they operate in.” He added that global over-the-top players like Uber and Airbnb have also established a presence in South Africa and have disrupted their markets through a differentiated customer experience built on seamless, frictionless, and convenient customer experience. “The pervasive and ubiquitous availability of broadband services driven by increased availability and capacity of mobile broadband services has to a large degree been one of the significant contributors to this – the ability to shop, book and consume on the go,” Govender said. Fibre has enabled myriad new technologies and optimisations within the South African enterprise and IoT spaces, and Govender envisions this having an even bigger impact in future. “The business sector has benefited from the increased availability of fibre-based broadband services,” he said. “Fibre-based access to the cloud has allowed businesses and enterprises to benefit from the scale and flexibility offered by cloud-based platforms, infrastructure, and applications.” Emerging technologies such as 5G, AI, IoT, and edge computing will continue to drive an increase in data consumption and the need for high-speed, reliable data transmission – making infrastructure like that provided by DFA crucial to the country’s progress. “What is common across this continuous journey of digital evolution is that these applications will be built upon the capability to access multiple cloud-based platforms, consume significant amounts of data, require high speeds, and in some cases real-time processing and respond with extreme levels of low-latency,” Govender said. “Fibre plays a critical and indispensable role in enable these ‘things’ in the IoT world to connect and create value for all stakeholders.” “Depending on the use case, it may be an access medium but will most definitely be the fronthaul and backhaul medium in the core network,” he said. DFA’s open access fibre network spans over 13,000km and enables all players in the ecosystem to have cost efficient, saleable, and reliable access to applications, services, and platforms in their digital transformation journey. “We are positioned to be the baseline infrastructure and connectivity enable that is focussed on connecting South Africans to each other and to the world,” Govender said. This article was published in partnership with DFA.