MultiChoice recently revealed its price increases for 2020, outlining how much users will pay for their satellite TV packages from 1 April. Last year, MultiChoice did not increase the price of DStv Premium after it announced a “price freeze” for the year. This year, however, its price changes include a hike in Premium and Compact Plus subscription fees. The price of DStv’s Premium package has increased by R10 to R819 per month, while the Access Fee has increased by R5 to R100. DStv Compact Plus increased from R519 to R529 per month, and price increases were also implemented for the DStv Family and Access packages. To see how DStv’s new prices stack up against alternative forms of entertainment, we compared them to the combination of a Netflix subscription and an uncapped fibre account. With an uncapped fibre account and Netflix package, users can stream content at home at will. However, while Netflix offers a wide range of series and movies, it does not provide live sports and news – which DStv does. The comparison is broken down into the following sections: DStv Premium is the top package on the platform, with 151 channels, while Compact Plus is the second-best offering and includes 134 channels. The biggest difference between the two is that Compact Plus does not include the following “high-value” channels: SuperSport 1, 2, 5, 6; M-Net and M-Net Movies Premiere; and Bloomberg. These channels are particularly valuable as they are among the most popular and air a selection of unique content. Netflix Standard offers access to all the content on the platform, along with full HD streaming and two viewing environments. Netflix Premium adds support for three viewing environments and UHD streaming resolution. For this reason, you will need a faster fibre line to stream in UHD resolution and fully take advantage of Netflix Premium. 10Mbps fibre will be more than enough to stream Full HD content, while a 20Mbps line will be sufficient to stream UHD content. The table below details the monthly pricing of the packages, using fibre pricing on Openserve from Cool Ideas.