Openserve is shutting down its ADSL network in South Africa wherever it offers fibre connectivity. This means that if you live in an area that is passed by Openserve fibre and you have an active ADSL connection, you will need to change to the newer technology. Openserve said that this migration would diminish connectivity challenges brought on by cable theft and speed limitations of copper infrastructure, adding that it would continue its drive to migrate customers using copper-based Internet to fibre-based infrastructure. The network operator previously said that it would shut down its ADSL offering in areas with fibre connectivity from 1 September. This has subsequently been extended to the end of November, however, to give ISPs and customers more time to migrate their users. “From end November 2020, we hope to welcome consumers on to the faster, leading-edge fibre technology. Openserve will stop supporting and maintaining all copper network infrastructure in areas already covered with our fibre network,” said Openserve CEO Althon Beukes. “We encourage consumers to contact their ISPs and check whether their area is one of the many areas we’ve already upgraded. We are working closely with our partner ISPs in ensuring that no one is without connectivity and has been migrated to our fibre infrastructure.” Openserve previously provided a list of areas which would be affected by the ADSL shutdown to ISPs. This has since been expanded, with the company publishing a full list of affected areas on its website, including subdivisions of suburbs, to provide customers with a better idea of whether they will need to switch to fibre before the end of November. “Openserve is on a continued drive to upgrade services to next-generation fibre technology and to reduce connectivity challenges brought on by cable theft and continuous maintenance of old legacy copper infrastructure,” the company said. “We will therefore be discontinuing all copper network infrastructure in the areas that are covered by the Openserve fibre footprint, which means that no customer should be without an Internet service.” “If you are currently using ADSL and have not yet migrated over to fibre, please contact your current or preferred Internet Service Provider for information and assistance to be migrated over to the fibre network,” Openserve said. The company confirmed that it will continue to support, maintain, and provide broadband services in areas where Openserve is yet to build out end-to-end fibre infrastructure. The full list of affected suburbs is reproduced below.