Digital platforms empower consumers with the ability to use the Internet to get what they need quickly. Reliable and fast connectivity has never been more important for businesses who need to stay relevant and competitive. Acquiring suitable equipment to get you connected is only the first step, however. Even the most powerful tools serve little purpose if you don’t have access to a fast and reliable data service. With the improved ability to work remotely, businesses can also no longer afford to rely strictly on fixed connectivity like fibre and broadband. Employees must be able to engage over voice and online platforms while at home, on the road, or any location out of the office. This makes a mobile SIM-only package the ideal option for on-the-go connectivity. To cater for each business’s unique requirements, MTN Business offers a wide range of different packages with varying allocations of data and voice minutes. Many of these SIM-only deals are available on a month-to-month basis or over the long, medium and short term, with 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, and 36-month contracts on offer. This affords businesses increased flexibility to adapt in the event that operational circumstances change unexpectedly. Many businesses primarily rely on data to conduct their operations. This could be particularly true for those who have their staff working remotely and need to often use platforms like Microsoft Teams to stay in touch. Data is also essential to keep in touch with customers and partners, maintain an online presence, and manage online-based solutions. MTN’s Made for Business Data+ Pro packages are perfect for data-heavy businesses. The table below shows a selection of these deals, which are also available on 3, 18, and 36-month contracts. Businesses who still make liberal use of standard voice calls can opt for MTN’s Made for Business S, M, L, XL, or Sky plans. These packages bundle generous amount of voice minutes with a moderate data allocation. The Made for Business L package includes 500 anytime minutes and 3GB anytime data, as well as a bonus once-off value of 20GB data and 500 minutes, at R579 per month on a 24-month contract. The table below shows a selection of MTN Made for Business deals. These may also be available over 3, 6, 18, or 36-month terms. MTN Made to Share packages feature copious amounts of data and minutes for those businesses who need it all. These packages are available on 24-month contracts, starting at R1,499 for 25GB anytime data and 500 anytime minutes on the Made to Share S (P) deal. Below are the three Made to Share packages on offer from MTN Business. Click here to view MTN’s wide range of SIM-only deals for businesses. This article was published in partnership with MTN Business.