South Africa’s biggest IP convergence conference is back. Undaunted by lockdown, this free MiRO hosted conference is bigger and better than before and for the first time, it will be 100% online and powered by Grandstream IPVideoTalk. This online conference will be taking place from 9-11 September and has been structured to make participation as easy and convenient as possible. Now you can discover the latest in IP-based technologies from the comfort of your home or office, wherever in the world you may be. MiRO’s online IP Convergence conference (IP-CON) is the ideal information and networking opportunity for ICT decision-makers, ISPs, resellers, and technology integrators. The 3-day conference will feature local and international experts and leaders who will discuss their first-hand knowledge of the industry and give you a glimpse of what the future holds. From the latest Wi-Fi 6 and 5G solutions to software-defined networking, security, and IoT: IP-CON 2020 is not to be missed! Day one opens with a welcome and keynote addresses from MiRO’s Managing Director, Marco de Ru and Sales Director, Jonathan Newton. Thereafter there will be concurrent sessions led by international representatives for internationally renowned brands such as Cambium Networks, MikroTik, Uniview, Ubiquiti, Grandstream and so much more! You can join the breakaway sessions that are relevant to your interests and industry. Topics include the latest technology developments in broadband wireless, Wi-Fi, networking, VoIP, SD-WAN, IoT, security, and IP video solutions. Day three of the conference is set aside for technical training sessions, with trainings from UNV, Edgecore Networks, Cambium Networks, and Siklu. Training includes best practice mmWave installations, open networking, and the technical configuration of surveillance solutions. IP-CON 2020 is jam-packed with information to enrich businesses and enhance technical skills, and this online event will allow delegates to rub virtual shoulders with industry experts with invaluable knowledge to share. Book your space here TODAY! This article was published in partnership with MiRO.