During the COVID-19 pandemic when routine annual screening tests and check-ups may have lagged behind, women need to make their health a priority and take care of themselves. A medical aid makes quality healthcare accessible, and Medihelp wants to ensure that you make use of the benefits available to you. You deserve excellent care for mind and body. The Department of Health has highlighted some of the most common women’s health issues, including cervical and breast cancer, and lifestyle diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, and obesity. Regular health screening tests can detect these potential problems early, prevent complications, and improve your quality of life. These include mammograms, pap smears, and combination tests measuring your blood glucose, cholesterol, BMI, and blood pressure. Medihelp offers added insured benefits to women across all its medical aid plans, including benefits for preventive care, routine screening and immunisation, as well as maternity benefits according to the coverage of your plan. Based on your medical aid plan, preventive care benefits for women’s health include: Based on your medical aid plan, added insured benefits also include routine screening and immunisation such as: Medihelp offers additional insured benefits for mothers-to-be on certain plans, consisting of the following: Visit our website to compare the different benefits available across our plans. Medihelp’s free health and wellness programme, HealthPrint, gives you access to a detailed online record of your health data that you can update and share. You can also monitor your health, join a weight challenge, or join the HealthPrint baby programme where you can receive value upon reaching certain milestones in your pregnancy. Medihelp is celebrating 115 years in the medical aid industry, and we thank our members for making this possible. Your health is our top priority, and our medical aid plans provide the best healthcare cover for your unique needs. Speak to an accredited Medihelp adviser today to find the right Medihelp plan for you. This article was published in partnership with Medihelp.