Continuous connectivity is key to ensuring your business can thrive in today’s online-first world. Your business needs the right tools and services so you can engage with customers, suppliers, and partners – as well as maintain and manage your online presence and platforms. This is especially true for small businesses operating in South Africa, who can differentiate themselves from the competition by being as digitally agile as the big players. Fortunately, a powerful smartphone offers access to many of the functions of conventional PCs while packing them into a portable form-factor. Samsung’s new Galaxy Note 20 is the perfect examples of this – designed for professionals as an ideal solution to serve the connectivity needs of small and medium businesses. The smartphone features top performance, exquisite design, and Samsung’s handy S-pen stylus, which makes working on a mobile device a breeze. Combine one of these smartphones with an MTN Business data deal and you get reliable and fast connectivity through the best mobile network in South Africa – allowing you to stay productive anywhere and at any time. The Galaxy Note 20 packs a Snapdragon 865 Plus chipset, which delivers the best performance of any processor currently available on an Android smartphone. Its 4,300mAh battery will ensure you can complete your daily tasks without having to worry about charging, while its IP68 rating means it is robust and can withstand tough operating environments. You can get the Galaxy Note 20 on an MTN Made for Business L deal with 3GB anytime data and 500 anytime minutes at R829 per month over 36 months. Alternatively, choose from one of the offers below. For those businesses seeking the ultimate in power and connectivity, the Galaxy Note 20 Ultra 5G takes matters to the next level. With its 5G support you can make use of MTN’s ultra-fast 5G network, which was recently rolled out in parts of South Africa and is set for further expansion. You also get a larger 6.9-inch display, which allows for quick and precise interaction and navigation. Businesses can get the Galaxy Note 20 Ultra 5G on an MTN Made for Business Sky package. This provides 35GB anytime data and 10,000 anytime minutes – which equates to about 166 hours or a week of non-stop talking time. Below are several Made for Business packages options for the Galaxy Note 20 Ultra 5G. Click here to browse the Galaxy Note 20 deals available from MTN Business. This article was published in partnership with MTN Business.