Eskom has announced that it will implement stage 2 load-shedding from 12:00 until 22:00 on Tuesday 1 September. The power utility said that the rolling blackouts would be implemented due to the breakdown of 10 generation units at seven different power stations over the last two days. “Eskom regrets to inform the public that due to a severely constrained generation system as a result of multiple unit breakdowns, it has become necessary to implement stage 2 load-shedding from 12:00 until 22:00 today,” Eskom said in a statement. “Ten generation units at seven power stations suffered breakdowns in the last 48 hours.” A single generator each broke down at the Arnot, Medupi, Lethabo, and Matla power stations, while two generation units each at the Majuba, Camden, and Tutuka power stations also broke down. Eskom said that these breakdowns, together with the need to conserve emergency generation reserve, necessitate the implementation of load-shedding to protect the integrity of the national power grid. Unplanned breakdowns stand at 11,665MW of capacity, with planned maintenance resulting in the further unavailability of 4,558MW of generation capacity. “Any further deterioration in the generation performance may necessitate the escalation of load-shedding at short notice,” Eskom said. “As the aged generation infrastructure is unreliable and volatile, this constrained power system is expected to persist for the rest of the week.” Eskom urged South Africans to reduce electricity usage to help the power utility reduce the possibility of load-shedding. #PowerAlert 1 Eskom to implement Stage 2 loadshedding from 12:00 until 22:00 as power system is severely
constrained@News24 @SABCNews @NewzroomAfrika @eNCA pic.twitter.com/vj8mMzIkaa — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) September 1, 2020  Eskom board members were meant to host an urgent online meeting with Parliament last week to discuss the situation at the company, but the meeting was called off after the power utility’s board members failed to log on. The board members sent a text message to say they were tied up, and parliamentary staff forgot to invite Pravin Gordhan, the public enterprises minister, who oversees the utility. Subjects set to be discussed at this meeting included two legal reports – one concerning the conduct of Chief Operating Officer Jan Oberholzer and the other regarding a multi-billion-rand fuel oil supply contract. The committee will reportedly try to meet again this week to discuss the problems at the power utility.