The COVID-19 pandemic has required national and provincial government departments to spend money on personal protective equipment, thermometers, and other equipment. At the directive of President Cyril Ramaphosa, the government has released the details of the COVID-19 contracts its national and provincial departments have entered into. The departments were told to submit full information on COVID-19 tenders to the ministerial team convened by Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola. “This measure is unprecedented, and a clear demonstration of government’s commitment to transparency and accountability when it comes to allegations of corruption in the COVID-19 procurement process,” President Ramaphosa said in a recent statement. ““By publishing these lists we have honoured our promise to the South African people. They enable proper scrutiny of the details of all companies who have received tenders for COVID-19 related services.” “The collaboration and cooperation between government departments during this process has been laudable, and a clear indication that we are going to intensify our efforts to act against any individuals or companies involved in corruption and profiteering around this pandemic.” This data includes payments made relating to the procurement of digital thermometers, which are used to check that people don’t have high temperatures. Altogether, the national government spent R14.3 million on digital thermometers to combat the COVID-19 crisis. Limpopo spent the most on digital thermometers out of all the provincial governments, racking up a bill of R76.9 million. As the South African government has a history of questionable tenders, MyBroadband has investigated the prices paid by various departments for these thermometers. To start, we have collated the prices of the most popular thermometers on Takealot and Makro’s websites: Takealot Makro It is also worth noting that since government departments often purchase these thermometers in bulk, they should enjoy favourable rates – even on more expensive devices. MyBroadband’s investigation into the government’s procurement prices finds that the prices paid are substantially higher than those available at Takealot and Makro. The investigation looks at both national and provincial spending and found that most thermometers were purchased for between R1,500 and R3,000 per unit. However, there were cases where departments paid in excess of R5,000 for a thermometer – such as with the Government Communication and Information System (GCIS), which recorded a transaction disclosing 13 thermometers purchased for R74,750. The Department of Tourism is also documented as purchasing two thermometers for R29,500 – which translates to R14,750 per thermometer. It is unclear whether this is a typing error and should instead read 20 thermometers (translating to R1,475 per thermometer) or if this is a genuine overpayment. There were also notable presentation issues in the reports provided by some provinces: Dut to the above issues, the Free State, Eastern Cape, and Northern Cape are excluded from the investigation. It is also worth noting that in some cases, individual order entries within these documents detail thermometers being purchased alongside other products such as masks and sanitisers. These entries were omitted as an accurate spending figure could not be obtained from this information. The prices paid by the various government departments for thermometers are below.