Did you miss the Internet boom of the 1990s? Or the mass adoption of smartphones and social media in the 2000s? Disruptive technologies like these come along once every decade or so but cryptocurrencies, like Bitcoin, are set to change how we transact forever. In fact, the total crypto market is now valued at over $343Bn – that’s higher than South Africa’s 2020 annual GDP forecast from the World Bank. Yes, smaller crypto transfers in Africa have increased by 55% in the last year. Africans are increasingly turning to cryptocurrencies as a way to store value or as a means of exchange and remittance. In particular, many local individuals and businesses are using cryptocurrencies to hedge against the instability of their local currencies. As of September 2020, the number of monthly crypto transfers to and from Africa has passed the 600,000 mark. The total number of transfers under $10,000 jumped by 55% to reach $316m. The total value of cryptocurrencies sent to Africa in 2020 is set to surpass last year’s total of $8Bn sent with almost $1Bn sent in June alone. Nigeria, South Africa and Kenya lead the region in cryptocurrency transfers. The rand has lost over 50% of its value against the U.S. dollar in the last decade and many other emerging market countries are also struggling with currency devaluation and instability. Cryptocurrencies, while still volatile in nature, have matured to a point where they have become a viable alternative to many emerging market currencies. Sean Sanders, CFA Charterholder and founder of investment platform Revix explained, “Money is meant to act as a stable store of value. But for many emerging market citizens this is not the case. Their currencies have deteriorated in value to the point where their hard earned savings are worth far less in real global terms. Unfortunately, the situation doesn’t appear to be improving, which is one of the factors driving a greater adoption of cryptocurrencies in emerging markets.” Sanders continued, “Lots of people think they’ve already missed out on crypto’s growth, however, its value today is only a tiny fraction of the trillion-dollar markets that it stands to disrupt. What if even a single cryptocurrency becomes the currency of choice for a nation plagued by hyperinflation or if the Federal Reserve prints another $3 Trillion?” Picking one individual cryptocurrency to back – even if it is Bitcoin – can be risky. Even the professionals only get it right half the time. A more diversified investment approach better manages this risk as you’re not putting all your eggs in one basket. Instead, you’re buying a basket of cryptocurrencies. Revix is an investment platform that offers a secure and simple way to own a basket or, as they call it, a Bundle of the top cryptocurrencies for as little as R500. The most sought after component of Revix’s Bundles is their ‘invest and leave it’ functionality. Their Bundles automatically update your crypto holdings every month keeping you up to date with the fast-paced crypto market. Investing is as easy as signing up, buying a Bundle, and then watching your portfolio grow. Revix offers 3 Crypto Bundles and they have seen strong returns in the last 12 months – the Payment Bundle is up over 20%, the Top 10 Bundle has risen over 36% and the Smart Contract Bundle has risen over 70%. The Top 10 Bundle is like the JSE Top 40 or S&P 500 for crypto and provides equally weighted exposure to the top 10 cryptocurrencies making up more than 85% of the crypto market. The Payment Bundle provides equally weighted exposure to the top 5 payment focused cryptocurrencies including the likes of Bitcoin, XRP and Litecoin. These cryptos aim to make payments cheaper, faster and more global. If you believe in a future where making payments with cryptocurrencies are as cheap, easy and quick as sending an email then this Bundle is for you. The Smart Contract Bundle provides equally weighted exposure to the top 5 smart contract focused cryptocurrencies like Ethereum, EOS or Tron. In much the same way that Android and IOS operating systems work with mobile applications, smart contract cryptocurrencies aim to provide the blockchain infrastructure to enable developers to work independently and creatively to build applications on top of them similar to how you might build an app on top of Apple’s iOS operating system. These cryptocurrencies aim to revolutionise how supply chains and trading networks operate through smart contracts. This is Revix’s top performing Bundle as it has benefited from the explosive growth in the decentralised finance (or DeFi) space in 2020. Revix also offers investors the ability to own Bitcoin directly, as well as Paxos Gold – an asset-backed digital token that provides direct fractionalised ownership of a physical gold bar held in London Brinks vaults, while benefiting from no monthly storage, insurance or administrative costs. So, whether you want a slice of the entire crypto market or a specific niche sector within the crypto space, Revix has a low-cost, easy to invest option for you. Revix is backed by Johannesburg Stock Exchange listed Sabvest and brings simplicity, trust and great customer service to crypto investing. Their easy to use online platform enables anyone to securely own the world’s top crypto assets in just a few clicks. Revix guides new clients through the sign-up process, to their first deposit and first investment. Once set up, most customers manage their own portfolio, but can access support from the Revix team at any time. For more information, please visit revix.com This article is intended for informational purposes only. The views expressed are not and should not be construed as investment advice or recommendations. This article is not an offer, nor the solicitation of an offer, to buy or sell any of the assets or securities mentioned herein. You should not invest more than you can afford to lose and before investing, please take into consideration your level of experience, investment objectives, and seek independent financial advice if necessary. This article was published in partnership with Revix.