Some parents who welcomed the empty nest as a time to finally focus on their needs may be feeling the blues as they find themselves in a boomerang generation. The boomerang generation is where adult children have left home, only to return after their wings were cut. “It may take longer to reach your goals now that some empty nesters are experiencing a boomerang of adult children returning home, but it is important not to change the goals but to change your plans in achieving your goals,” said Karabo Ramookho, strategic retail manager at Old Mutual. You were probably looking forward to the freedom of not having to take care of your children financially and made plans to celebrate your new independence with a holiday to your dream destination. Young adults find themselves in a position where they have experienced a salary cut or were hit by retrenchments – and do not have the financial means to honour their financial commitments such as car instalments and rent, and may be forced to move back to the parents’ home. “You are now faced with financial challenges that you may have never thought to be possible. You probably haven’t discussed this topic and the subsequent financial fallout with your financial adviser that is now affecting both your and your child’s finances. Let a financial adviser help coach you to reach your end-goal by making necessary changes to your financial plans,” urged Ramookho. “At Old Mutual, we have more than 175 years of experience in helping customers reach their end-goal by uniquely tailoring their financial plan despite tough economic times.” Let your financial coach help you take steps to still reach your financial goals by mapping out a financial plan for you and your children. Old Mutual is running a competition to better understand who you are and what your financial needs are. By participating in the competition you stand a chance to win one of three voucher prizes, worth R1,500, R1,000 or R750, from any of our Rewards partners. To enter, visit MyBroadband and BusinessTech and complete the online form and survey fully. The survey will take less than 3 minutes. The competition will run from 1 September 2020 to 25 September 2020. Winners will be announced on 30 September 2020.  Terms and conditions apply. Click here to enter the Old Mutual Retirement competition. This article was published in partnership with Old Mutual.