Cambium Networks’ recent Global Service Provider Survey on 60GHz opportunities outlines service providers’ leading priorities for 60GHz deployment. “In today’s world, high-speed Internet access is as fundamental as having access to water and electricity,” said Teresa Huysamen, Wireless Business Unit Executive at Duxbury Networking, distributors of Cambium solutions in South Africa. “Cambium’s 60GHz product strategy is designed to deliver fibre-like throughput at a fraction of the cost.” Service providers indicated that the top application will be connecting business customers. When asked which applications are most attractive, 57% of operators ranked building-to-building wireless multi-gigabit point-to-point links for business first. The next highest applications are residential connectivity with 46% and Wi-Fi backhaul with 30%. When asked which locations will be a priority, 48% of respondents identified urban environments where population drives demand for capacity as the most important. Closely behind, with 43% of the vote, are small communities, which are currently underserved. Industrial applications, with IoT business connectivity demand, came in at 38%. “Network planning is vital to service reliability. Planning and design tools dramatically improve network performance while reducing the upfront time and cost of skilled technicians. Almost all of the service providers polled indicated that planning tools are important to their business operations,” Huysamen said. Cambium plans to release several 60GHz products in the coming months and to deliver the best experience. Cambium’s 60GHz design architecture will use the 802.11ay standard for higher capacity and better channel access and mesh support. The design incorporates Terragraph’s mesh technology, developed by Facebook Connectivity, to achieve superior network reliability at lower cost. The 802.11ay standard is designed with a throughput capacity of over 10 Gbps data rate over distances of 200 to 500 metres. It will include features such as channel bonding and synchronisation. Here are the key reasons why 802.11ay will outperform 802.11ad: “Duxbury is excited that customers will benefit from the fact that the new products will deliver industry-leading multi-gigabit wireless at a breakthrough total cost of ownership for every Mbps delivered,” said Huysamen. For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, duxbury.co.za This article was published in partnership with Duxbury Networking.