South Africa is one of the most cost-effective countries in the world for Netflix, according to a recent study published by CompariTech. Comparitech’s analysis looks at the prices of Netflix subscriptions across 39 countries, as well as the content library in each of these regions and the quality of the content available as determined by IMDb scores. The data shows that Netflix customers in the United Kingdom enjoy the widest selection of content, with a total of 6,122 titles in their library. Comparitech also found that there was a significant disparity in price-per-title across countries, with countries with cheaper subscription prices often being the most cost-effective for Netflix. “Our study shows a massive disparity when the cost per title is analyzed between different countries,” it said. “Due to the cheap price, Brazil, South Africa, and India are actually the most cost-effective countries to watch Netflix in.” Cost-per-title was calculated for each region across the Basic, Standard, and Premium Netflix price plans, which are priced at the following monthly rates: Based on these prices, Netflix Basic users in South Africa pay just less than R0.02 per title on the platform, making it the second-most cost-effective country for Netflix Basic in the world. The country holds the same rank for Netflix Standard, with the cost per title coming in at under R0.03. When it comes to Netflix Premium, South Africa is the most cost-effective country in the world with a cost per title of just over R0.03. Countries which were the least cost-effective included Denmark, Switzerland, Finland, and Sweden. “Despite its great user experience with prime streaming speeds, Switzerland is not going to be the place to opt for a Netflix subscription if you love a good deal,” Comparitech said. “Bargain-lovers, however, may want to opt for a subscription in Brazil, India, or South Africa, but will have to sacrifice some quality and titles in order to get their cheaper pricing.” The table below shows the cost-per-title of each country across Netflix Basic, Standard, and Premium subscriptions. Entries are sorted from cheapest to most expensive and prices are converted to US dollars to compare the cost-per-title figures. The table shows the average IMDb rating for the content library of each country in the comparison.