It has been 5 months since South Africa’s national lockdown was announced. Now reaching Lockdown Alert Level 1, many restrictions have been relaxed by the government. Unfortunately, the pandemic has put South Africans under financial strain, which has put household expenses, monthly budgets, and insurance bills very much under the spotlight. It’s essential, however, for consumers not to abandon their insurance cover, but rather to seek an alternative that can meet their new monthly budgets. Therefore, it’s important to consider looking for a good, professional insurance broker who is a certified financial advisor. Most insurance companies have dedicated advisors, who help clients identify their specific needs and risks associated with it. Before committing to any policy, it’s important to either speak with your insurance company directly or with an independent broker. The brokers that work in the industry have a lot of experience and help clients understand what their policy entails and if there are any risks at hand. When dealing with an insurance broker, it doesn’t mean that it is more expensive. Most people are fooled into thinking that it is cheaper to deal directly with an insurance company. It shouldn’t take a global pandemic like COVID-19 to make you want to review and restructure your insurance policy to satisfy your demands. This is important, because circumstances are always changing and this can result in claims being rejected when there is a cover mismatch. In this case, the detail in the policy cover no longer matches the policyholders cover criteria, which is why it is imperative to review your insurance policy often. With COVID-19 changing our lives in more ways than one, now is an excellent time to take advantage of how you can restructure your insurance policy. There are a few options you can consider, which may include: If you are looking for affordable car insurance, consider PMD – which offers unique benefits such as fixed premiums* and a reduce to zero excess*. Ts & Cs apply. Please consult a certified financial advisor before you decide to buy car insurance products. The contents of this article are for informational purposes only. Source: https://www.insurancechat.co.za/2020-07/savings-top-of-mind-in-covid-19-crisis-tips-on-how-to-reduce-your-insurance-bill-in-lockdown/ This article was published in partnership with Prime Meridian Direct.