Enabling remote working has become a core part of running a business in 2020. Your staff need the right tools to keep providing value to your business when working from home. Fortunately, Microsoft offers an extensive suite of valuable tools that will keep your staff working at 100% – even if they are not in the office. Here are 12 powerful productivity tools from Microsoft (Source: Microsoft). Microsoft Flow lets users automate their workflows across their applications. Flow can integrate your email and instant messaging alerts, synchronise files between your various applications, and automatically copy files from one service to another. It isn’t limited to Microsoft products, either – it also supports services such as Facebook and Dropbox. Microsoft Forms allows you to create surveys, quizzes, and polls, and to monitor the results. It supports up to 5,000 recipients and can be used internally to get employee feedback, or externally for market research. MyAnalytics tracks the time spent on activities such as Network, Meetings, Email, Focus Hours, and After Hours. Planner helps you manage your projects and deliverables while organising your remote-working teams. It includes: Through PowerApps you can build your own app with simple templates. This app can connect to other services such as your CRM, SharePoint, or Oracle database. 6. Microsoft StaffHub StaffHub is a mobile app that allows employees and their managers to use a mobile device to manage their schedules, request time off, and keep in touch. Delve is a data visualisation tool that brings together elements of social media with machine learning. It discovers content across Exchange, OneDrive, SharePoint, and Yammer, and aggregates data points and analyses this information. Office 365 Groups is a shared workspace for team members. This allows your employees to create and store documents as well as a shared email. Office 365 video enables the upload, sharing, and playback of video messages. Sway is a presentation tool with a built-in design engine that helps your employees to produce reports and presentations that are simple yet professional. Users can use a drag-and-drop interface to insert images, text, videos, and charts. Power BI Pro is a tool for publishing reports, sharing dashboards, and collaborating with colleagues in workspaces. Advanced eDiscovery is a simple yet comprehensive search feature that allows users to find data and documents across their Exchange Online mailboxes, SharePoint Online, and OneDrive for Business sites in a single search bar. Technology, now more than ever, is a business enabler and it is therefore important that your employees are adequately skilled in using these tools so that your business gets the full benefit of them. CTU Training Solutions offers comprehensive training for businesses looking to upskill their employees in Microsoft’s productivity tools. CTU was established in 1987 and is a leading private education provider which offers courses ranging from accredited academic qualifications to short courses and skills development programmes. It is currently running a special promotion where those who enrol for a Microsoft technical course – delivered via hybrid VILT training – can save 33% on their course fees. These courses span a vast range of topics and fields, meaning there is something for everybody. Click here to sign up to a Microsoft technical course and get a great deal! This article was published in partnership with CTU Training.