President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that South Africa will move to lockdown level 1 from midnight on Sunday 20 September 2020. This will come with the easing of a number of existing lockdown regulations, including those related to travel and the national curfew. Speaking in an address to the nation on Wednesday 16 September, Ramaphosa said that South Africa was making progress in its fight against COVID-19. “With the further progress we have made as infections have come down we are now ready for a new phase in our response to the pandemic,” Ramaphosa said. “Now is the time to return our country, its people, our economy, to a situation that more resembles the lives we were living six months ago.” Ramaphosa announced that the following changes would be made as part of the move to level 1 lockdown: “Our economy and our society have suffered great devastation. We have endured a fierce and destructive storm,” Ramaphosa said. “Now we are, on average, recording less than 2,000 cases per day. We now have a recovery rate of 89%, which could go to 98% in time.” “We have succeeded in overcoming the worst phase of this pandemic while protecting the capacity of our health system,” he said. The President said South Africa’s greatest challenge now is to ensure it does not experience a resurgence in infections. He said that alongside increased testing, the government is improving contact tracing through the deployment of the COVID-19 Alert mobile phone app. The President’s announcement follows a statement by Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize earlier this week, which stated that South Africa had created a Ministerial Advisory Committee (MAC) that would focus on the development of a vaccine for COVID-19. “In addition to the multi-sectoral MAC focusing on community mobilisation, another MAC has been created to focus on Coronavirus vaccine development,” Mkhize said. The MAC will advise the government on the development and rollout of a COVID-19 vaccine, and it will monitor and report on candidate studies. “This will ensure that the Department of Health and government are kept abreast on all critical developments internationally relating to the vaccine,” Mkhize said. Mkhize added that this committee would also study the feasibility for South Africa to manufacture vaccines in future. Professor Barry Schoub, who is an expert in vaccinology and virology, will chair the committee. Other members include Biovac CEO Dr Morena Makhoana, Department of Science and Technology’s Glaudina Loots, South African Health Products Authority CEO Dr Boitumelo Semete-Makokotlela, and Vaccines for Africa’s Professor Greg Hussey.