By Lukas van der Merwe, Specialist Sales Executive: Security, T-Systems South Africa As countries around the world struggle to contain the spread of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic, cybercriminals are wasting no time trying to exploit potential vulnerabilities resulting from the lockdown that has confined most people to working remotely, with relatively less secure devices. Cybersecurity company Kaspersky Lab reported a major spike in network attacks in South Africa between 15 and 21 March, with hackers attacking up to 310,000 devices during that one-week period – an alarming increase over the normal weekly average of 20,000 to 30,000. In a digital world, with billions of people and even more devices connected to the Internet via private, public and corporate networks, cybersecurity has become a priority concern. T-Systems estimates that the world will see 50 billion connected IOT-devices by this year. In addition, to flatten the pandemic curve, governments globally continue to implement lockdown and social distancing, forcing much larger percentages of the workforce to connect remotely. Lockdown will leave a lasting impact on how we work and requires a complete revision of how corporations view and address cyber risks. Even before the outbreak, South Africa was on the brink of a major transformative phase in cybersecurity. The imminent introduction of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) and cybercrime legislation, as well as a continued digitisation drive from business and the availability of cognitive technologies are paving the way for corporations to emerge victorious from the chrysalis. There will be greater focus on effective detection and response, while maintaining sophisticated protection in their cybersecurity DNA. However, the outbreak greatly accelerated the digital workplace and the lockdown forced companies to enable employees to work remotely. The risk is that many organisations may be left behind in a caterpillar like approach, while others may remain in the pupal state, overwhelmed by the complexity of this challenge. Those who emerge from the Chrysalis and are able to adapt and leverage next-generation technology underpinning Advanced Cyber Defences, will be much better prepared to grow sustainably in a digital post pandemic world. Keep in mind that technology and the security controls it enables do not inherently offer protection – cyber resilience requires a holistic and proactive approach, owned at the highest levels of an organisation. With data classified and risks assessed relative to the specific business, T-Systems can advise appropriate controls and supporting technology to be deployed. Cyber resilience is much more than a defensive strategy and requires earlier detection and rapid response in the event of a breach. In a data-driven digital economy, with cyberthreats increasing both in frequency and sophistication, South Africa is no exception and definitely not immune. The lockdown resulted in more employees working remotely using less secure devices and networks, exacerbating the already significant threat. This is likely to become the new normal and while the initial focus was on access and productivity, we have to address long term sustainability and security aspects. Next-generation technology like Security Orchestration Automation and Response (SOAR), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and advanced threat hunting can greatly assist, but less than 15% of corporations in South Africa has this deployed T-Systems has operated a Security Operation Centre in South Africa since 2010, offering Advanced Cyber Defence services, using the latest technology that integrates AI, Orchestration, Automation and Threat Hunting capability. The Centre forms part of our Managed Cyber Defence Services that consists of: Get in contact with T-Systems: This article was published in partnership with T-Systems.