With many South African employees currently working from home due to the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown, there’s never been a more opportune time to leverage the power of Video Conferencing to stay connected to the pulse of your company wherever you may be collaborating from. Omega’s Video Conferencing plugin for Outlook makes connecting to a meeting or collaboration session a breeze, without the usual infrastructure requirements of an on-premise Video Conferencing setup. The Omega Video Conference Plugin for Outlook allows Video Conferencing meeting organisers to invite an unlimited number of participants directly from a button displayed in their email client. Confirm the date, time and virtual meeting room and send a Video Conferencing invite just like you would a meeting request. It’s that simple. Participants will then receive an invitation email containing a unique pin to securely join the meeting from either their browser, Video Conferencing system, or telephone. Our Outlook Plugin solution is powered by The Omega Cloud – a proudly South African initiative comprising a powerful and ever-evolving collaboration platform for businesses featuring state-of-the-art security and infrastructure. Unlike other popular Video Conferencing vendors whose security and privacy has recently been called into question, The Omega Cloud was built with world-class security as a non-negotiable. With this in mind, our locally-based data centres are ISO 9001 certified and the platform has comprehensive security features such as end-to-end encryption to ensure complete peace of mind. The platform is also fully compliant with The Protection of Personal Information Act 4 of 2013 (POPI) so we take user data security extremely seriously. In terms of The Omega Cloud’s capacity, we recently upgraded the platform’s infrastructure by more than doubling the bandwidth that our data centres operate at. The Omega Cloud uses local point of presence (PoP) connections ensuring high capacity, resilience and availability, and improved quality of service (QoS). We have more than enough capacity to seamlessly scale up the number of users on our platform as demand dictates, thereby fulfilling our promise of “Limitless Collaboration”. The Western Cape Government’s Disaster Management team is currently taking advantage of The Omega Cloud’s enterprise-grade security and capacity in their campaign to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as prevent and respond to any future disasters. Our Outlook Plugin can be deployed via Group Policies which makes it easy to set up remote workers using company-sanctioned devices with the service, and our flexible licensing model and low monthly fee per user minimises cost while boosting return on investment. If you’d like to learn more about Omega’s Outlook Plugin or The Omega Cloud, please visit omegadigital.co.za/omega-cloud/. This article was published in partnership with Omega Digital.