Many South African businesses are experiencing a loss in revenue and an uncertain future due to the extended coronavirus lockdown in South Africa. Many non-essential companies are prohibited from operating, while others can only do business in a limited capacity. Small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly hard-hit, as many of these businesses do not have deep pockets and rely on each month’s income to pay employees and stay afloat. The economic impact of the lockdown means these businesses will have to cut staff or even close down. The economic downturn is so severe, in fact, that Efficient Group economist Dawie Roodt expects between 100,000 and 200,000 businesses to shut down permanently. He further estimates, based on the anticipated GDP decline in 2020, that 1 million jobs could be lost in South Africa this year. The good news for South African businesses and employees is there are many ways in which they can apply for financial assistance. The government has set up a Solidarity Fund, which includes private donations and seed capital from the state, to help people during this period. The Rupert and Oppenheimer families have each set up a R1-billion fund to assist businesses and employees during this time. The major banks have launched debt relief programmes to assist businesses and individuals who are in financial distress. There is also a Tourism Relief Fund which provides once-off capped grant assistance to SMMEs in the tourism value chain. The table below provides an overview of prominent funds and how South Africans can apply for assistance.  Have been trading for two or more years. Must be in good standing with its bank, statutory creditors and with the bureaus as at the end of February 2020 Be able to prove that revenue has been impacted by COVID-19 and therefore requires assistance to pay their permanent staff salaries.  Employees carry no liability for the repayment of the loan Qualifying small businesses will get a R750 per qualifying employee per week, over a period of 15 weeks, or R11 250 per permanent employee.  Application needs to be made through your main banking partner.  First year, no interest or instalments. Thereafter standard commercial terms. The business must show that it was affected by the COVID-19 disaster resulting in a decline in revenues, while still having to pay overheads such as salaries and rent. Need to meet the following criteria:  Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) may apply for R250,000 – R1 million in funding.  Eligible customers in need of short-term liquidity relief will qualify for the relief programme that applies to Absa’s credit products. These relief measures apply to Absa’s corporate, wealth, business bank, private bank and retail customers. Support for corporate and business banking clients will entail solutions based on their unique requirements and operations.  Give customers the opportunity to either continue paying if they are in a position to, to pay reduced instalments by agreement with the bank, or to defer payments for a period of three months. Relevant agreements will be adjusted by revising the loan period and capitalising interest during the relief period. No additional administration fees.  You do not need to contact Absa to arrange this relief. Businesses and corporates are encouraged to contact their relationship managers for further details.  Instalment cashflow relief, during which part or no instalments/repayments will be due for a specific period; A preferential interest rate will apply to the COVID19 relief interventions given; No fees will be charged for any relief granted; Assistance with processing credit insurance claims, where possible; Individualized bridge facilities for those who need it. Interest and fees will continue to accumulate on outstanding balances.  Employed people need a confirmation letter confirming loss of income from employer. Self Employed: Financial statements with relevant info indicating loss. Business: Under R20 million mostly addressed. Other businesses will be assessed individually. Contact via secure chat or 0877 FNB 247 from 08:00 to 20:00, Monday to Sunday or go to branch.  Monthly credit card repayments: Your monthly minimum repayment has been reduced from 5% to 2,5% of your outstanding balance, with immediate effect. SASWITCH fees: Effective 28 March, you can withdraw cash from any bank’s ATM without being charged the additional SASWITCH fee. Please note that normal withdrawal fees, if applicable, will still apply. Penalty fees on early investment withdrawals: For clients wishing to access fixed-term or notice investments, the early release penalty fee will be waived.  No specific relief policies for businesses or customer are currently in place. Customers are encouraged to contact the bank directly if they are in financial distress due to COVID-19. Call 086 055 5111. Customers who need payment relief should call the dedicated debt relief centre on 0860 110 702 and home-owners who need help can also email HLCollections@Nedbank.co.za or MoratoriumRequest@Nedbank.co.za Applications will be processed from 3 April 2020. More detailed information, including the application forms and supporting document requirements will be published over the coming days. All applications must be emailed to the dedicated mailbox SAFT@nedbank.co.za  Business Current account, Bizlaunch account, and Business Lending accounts are paid up to date. Business is in good standing.  The business must have been registered with CIPC by at least 28 February 2020; Company must be 100% owned by South African citizens; Employees must be 70% South Africans; Priority will be given to businesses owned by Women, Youth, and People with Disabilities; Be registered and compliant with SARS and UIF;  You will be able to apply for financing at an interest rate of prime minus 5%. This would mean an interest rate of 3.75% per year. If you are approved, you will be given a payment holiday and have your loans restructured. How this will look is still to be confirmed by the department. At this stage, the amounts to be applied for are still to be confirmed. There are still engagements in place with the minister and president and business representatives. However, the department is accepting applications.  Whereas small and medium enterprises must ensure own compliance; A) Registration on the National SMME Database – https://smmesa.gov.za. The following documents will be required during the application process: B) Proof that the business is negatively affected by COVID-19 pandemic; C)Complete the simplified online application platform; D) Company Statutory Documents; E) FICA documents (e.g. Municipal accounts, letter from traditional authority); F) Certified ID Copies of Directors; 3 months Bank Statements; G) Latest Annual Financial Statements or Latest Management Accounts not older than three months from date of application – where applicable; H) Business Profile; I) 6 months Cash Flow Projections – where applicable; J) Copy of lease agreement or proof ownership if applying for rental relief; K) If applying for payroll relief, details of employees – as registered with UIF and including banking details – will be required as payroll payments will be made directly to employees; L) SMME employers who are not compliant with UIF must register before applying for relief; M) Facility Statements of Other Funders; N). Detail breakdown on application of funds including salaries, rent etc. Application Process a. Register on https://smmesa.gov.za/; b. Complete online Application Form; c. Upload Required Supporting Documents info@dsbd.gov.za/ info@mybindu.org.za| 0860 663 7867 or 0860 ONE STOP The process and payout timelines have been detailed as: Currently accepting registrations at www.smmesa.gov.za  In line with amended codes on BBB-EE, the following categories will apply: There will also be an equitable balance between businesses that are in the tourism incentive programme of the Department of Tourism and businesses that are not benefiting from such programmes through a transparent application process, and the criteria outlined above.  Will need the following proof:  Should your business not be compliant, you will be able to undertake to pay outstanding contributions and bring your required declarations up to date within a stipulated timeframe.  You will receive an automated response outlining the procedure and information you will require.  Be a taxpayer in good standing with a valid tax clearance certificate at assessment as well as before the loan is disbursed. Be a current and registered supplier with retailers and other institutions in good standing or have a purchase order/ contract/ letter of intent. Require working capital or funds to purchase machinery and equipment. The fund will not service any pre-existing debt or help settle monies owed. Have greater than 50% black shareholding and management control. Must be directly involved in the day-to-day running of the operation and must have requisite expertise in the sector. Owned by black South Africans as defined by the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) Act. In line with the NEF’s transformation mandate, preference will be given to applications that demonstrate meaningful black women ownership, management and control. Have a project with a minimum requirement of R500,000 in working capital, machinery, and equipment. Must result in retaining or increasing direct jobs. Submission of all relevant documents for commercially viable applications. 