Netflix has assured viewers and investors that it will not run out of new content while subscribers are stuck at home due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking during the company’s Q1 2020 earnings call, Netflix chief content officer Ted Sarandos explained that the company is confident it has enough content in post-production to last through 2020 and into 2021. “We work really far out relative to the industry because we launch our shows with all our episodes at once and we’re working far out all over the world,” Sarandos said. “Our 2020 slate of series and films are largely shot and are in post-production remotely in locations all over the world, and we are actually pretty deep into our 2021 slate.” This means that while other content providers may struggle to output content this year due to production limitations caused by the coronavirus, Netflix should continue releasing content at its normal rate, as it is continuing its post-production process as normal. Netflix Group CFO Spencer Neumann added that the streaming service is actually on track to launch more originals this year than the year before. “We’ll actually have more branded Netflix originals on our service this year than we had last year,” Neumann said. The international COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a massive increase in Netflix traffic due to increased self-isolation and lockdown measures imposed in various countries. South African ISPs have also seen a big increase in streaming traffic driven by the lack of live entertainment such as sports. “Due to the various social distancing measures put in place all over the world, satellite TV has no live sport to watch and this has driven enormous demand for streaming services like Netflix and Showmax,” Webafrica previously told MyBroadband. South African data centre operator and telecoms company Dimension Data also said it has seen a big increase in peering traffic following the implementation of the national coronavirus lockdown. “We have seen a 25% overall increase in the amount of peering traffic exchanged to and from our content delivery nodes – a clear spike in content-based application consumption,” Dimension Data said. “On-net content delivery to subscribers and peers through our open peering policy has increased by 40% for Netflix and Facebook.” <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>