The South African government has proposed to keep a range of restrictions in place once the lockdown ends, according to a presentation published on the SATSA website. The presentation detailed the “risk-adjusted strategy for economic activity” in South Africa, adding that there are “serious risks” to lifting lockdown restrictions too quickly and in a disorderly manner. The following restrictions could remain in place after the national lockdown, regardless of the level of virus alert, according to the presentation: The presentation went on to state that “no gatherings of more than 10 people outside of a workplace will be permitted”. Passengers on all modes of transport may also have new rules placed on them, including a requirement to wear a cloth mask “to be allowed entry into the vehicle”. “Hand sanitisers must be made available, and all passengers must sanitise their hands before entering. Public transport vehicles must be sanitised on a daily basis.” Rules for the country’s businesses were also detailed in the presentation, including: The presentation went on to state that restrictions on economic activity “need to be adapted to epidemiological trends, and may need to be relaxed and tightened in different periods”. “An alert system should be created with clearly defined levels of restriction that can be imposed by the National Command Council as necessary.” The presentation points to the new guidelines as part of a proposal for a post-lockdown economic strategy and potential virus alert system. It does not state whether the proposed rules will be implemented as they are currently detailed in the document. According to a report on Fin24, presidential spokesperson Khusela Diko said the document was prepared “as early input into the development of a risk-adjusted approach to resuming economic activity”. Parts of the document have changed “substantially” and it is still being finalised. It will be elaborated on by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday evening, stated the report.