With the ongoing COVID-19 coronavirus lockdown, remote working has picked up, which means that people are spending more time in front of computer displays at home. Looking into a monitor for hours on end could lead to Computer Vision Syndrome (CSV). This includes symptoms like eye strain and fatigue, headaches, blurred vision, dry eyes and shoulder and neck pain. These symptoms will not only be detrimental to your productivity but can pose a threat to your overall quality of life. Using a monitor that is made specifically to help alleviate the eye-damaging effects of the light emitted from a display should be a priority if you plan on spending plenty of time using a computer. ASUS Eye Care Monitors boast a range of eye-friendly features, including low blue-light filters, flicker-free and anti-glare capabilities, as well as ergonomic designs. The first feature to look out for when considering an eye-friendly monitor is a low blue-light filter. Monitors emit blue-violet radiation which can cause eye damage, strains, headaches and sleeping problems. This is because high energy blue light passes through the eyes to the macula layer of your eyes. The American Macular Degeneration Foundation has highlighted that recent studies show that the blue end of the light spectrum may further contribute to retinal damage. ASUS Blue Light Filter technology gives users four options of blue light reduction, lowering blue light emission levels from 20% up to 70%. Another issue that may cause eye strain and headaches is screen flickering. Adjusting the brightness on a monitor is done through dimming control. To achieve this, the LED backlight is rapidly switched on and off, resulting in flicker intervals. These flickers may not be noticeable to you, but they are picked up by your eyes, especially when brightness levels are low or the LED backlight flashes at high speed. ASUS Flicker-Free Technology counters flickering by using Smart Dynamic Backlight Adjustment. This avoids low brightness levels and high-speed LED backlight flashing. Smooth, glossy screens can reflect light directly backwards and cause unwanted glare, making it difficult to view content on your display. A monitor with an anti-glare or matte display will dissipate reflected light, thus reducing eye strain and fatigue. ASUS Eye Care monitors reduce the reflections of various light sources, providing a better viewing experience even with harsh light hitting the display. Ideally, a monitor should be physically adjustable in terms of height and angle to best suit your preferences. Viewing at a sharp angle or from the wrong height are major causes of eye problems, and could put further strain on your neck, shoulders and arms. ASUS monitors offer full tilt, pivot, swivel, and height adjustment to optimise your viewing position. In addition to the features that help protect your eyes, there are a number of other monitor characteristics to consider that will make them more convenient to work on. For optimal mobile productivity with the added protection of ASUS Eye Care technology, the ASUS ZenScreen MB16AC Portable USB Monitor is the ideal product. This MB16AC is the world’s lightest 15.6-inch companion display monitor. It allows for easy extension of your laptop, tablet, or phone displays via a USB-C connection, making it ideal for use as a second monitor. This monitor is available from Takealot. For those who want to spend the extra time at home getting their dose of gaming, the ASUS VP247HAE Eye Care Monitor will offer a painless playing experience with superior image quality and technology. Click here to find the right ASUS Eye Care Monitor for your productivity or gaming requirements. This article was published in partnership with ASUS.