Wi-Fi in the hospitality industry needs to be fast, stream all media and support all devices. The deployment of the network also needs to be fast and efficient. Teresa Huysamen, Business Unit Manager for Cambium solutions at Duxbury Networking, said that there are three key Wi-Fi features that hotel guests look for in a Wi-Fi system: “Today’s guests want to be online from the moment they reach the property, and to stay connected everywhere – in their room, the restaurant, the swimming pool, the rooftop, the fitness centre, and the conference centre – regardless of whether their stay is for business or pleasure,” said Huysamen. There are two critical considerations when planning hospitality Wi-Fi networks: Huysamen says that prior to installing a hospitality Wi-Fi network, it is important to perform a heat map survey using the proper tools (for example, Ekahau) to assess the number and type of access points, the ideal installation locations for them, and to generate a bill of materials based on the unique parameters of the unique coverage area. “Use a modern, scalable management platform that provides a single pane of glass and integrated help desk tools across the enterprise Wi-Fi network and Ethernet distribution in the property. Cambium’s cnMaestro cloud-based management provides all the essential features required, with no recurring or licence fees. It supports the cnPilot hospitality enterprise Wi-Fi portfolio and cnMatrix Ethernet. cnMaestro Pro provides additional features such as deep analytics and multi-tenancy to allow managed service providers (MSPs) to extend control and accessibility to their hotel guests,” said Huysamen. Huysamen said that all eventualities can be catered for. “In instances where a hotel is an older building with thick stone walls, signal penetration may be hampered. In this case a combination of access point types can be used – with cnPilot wall plates for in-room connectivity and other high-capacity indoor access points such as the Cambium e600 providing connectivity in the common areas and outdoor units for outside areas. By consulting with our technical team at the start of a project, we can recommend best fit for each specific installation.” For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, duxbury.co.za This article was published in partnership with Duxbury Networking.