WeBuyCars recently celebrated the grand opening of their new Cape Town branch and could not be more satisfied with how remarkable the branch is already performing. The event took place on the 16th of January 2020, where guests were welcomed with refreshments and live, acoustic music. Towards the end, Faan van der Walt (the CEO of WeBuyCars) and Louis van der Watt (the CEO of Atterbury Property Holdings) cut the red ribbon and officiated the grand opening. The new Cape Town branch is already overflowing with customers buying and selling their vehicles. Whether it is the bracing summer breeze surrounding Cape Town, the building’s refreshing, modern design or WeBuyCars’ unrivaled reputation for excellent customer service making people stream into the new Cape Town branch, is still undecided. With the new year ahead, many people are ready to sell their current vehicles and are seeking vehicles that will fit their lifestyle changes in 2020. As with all WeBuyCars branches, you can sell your vehicle, buy a new vehicle or trade in your vehicle at the new Cape Town branch. There are dedicated car buyers at the new Cape Town branch who will evaluate your vehicle, take it for a test drive and make you a final offer on your vehicle. Once you accept the final offer, they will take care of all the paperwork and you will receive immediate payment. Alternatively, you can complete their online Sell My Car form and have one of their Cape Town buyers evaluate your vehicle when and where it is convenient for you. At every WeBuyCars branch, there is a wide selection of vehicles to choose from including (but not limited to) cars, bakkies, minibuses, boats, caravans, and many more. You can either buy the vehicle cash or make use of their in-house finance solutions and get vehicle finance on any of their financeable vehicles. You can also get vehicle insurance, with the help of their in-house insurance representatives. You can visit their new Cape Town branch Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 18:00 and on Saturday from 08:00 to 15:00. For more information regarding the different WeBuyCars branch locations and trading hours feel free to visit their website.