The South African Payments Association (PASA) wants to drive the use of technology to reduce the number of cash transactions in South Africa. This is according to PASA’s manager for strategy and research, John Buitendag, who spoke to CNBC Africa about the adoption of digital payments in the country. 65% of all financial transitions in South Africa are in cash, and while it is lower than Africa’s 95%, it is much higher than global standards. Buitendag said cash and the cost associated with using cash is a massive problem globally, which is why many countries are modernising and looking at alternatives to cash. He said the cost of using cash is particularly high in South Africa because of the high crime rate. This influences poorer communities and small business in rural communities more where the use of cash is the preferred transaction method, Buitendag said South Africa has a mature card market but highlighted that the barrier of entry remains very high. He said cash still reigns supreme in rural South Africa where credit card penetration is low and card payment facilities are limited. He said real-time payment solutions which are very cheap are needed to replace cash in the country. Using mobile phones for payments is one of the most promising alternatives to cash, as people have their phones with them all the time. Buitendag said mobile payments will be a key enabler to transform South Africa to a cashless society in future. He added that the banks and other stakeholders are optimistic about the potential of digital payments in the country. Buitendag said education is a key component to encourage the adoption of digital payment technologies. Giving the example of contactless tap-and-go payments, he said there is a perception that it is a dangerous way of paying. It is, however, one of the safest ways to transact. This is because the card never leaves the owner’s hand and removes the risk of card skimming. He added that new technologies like using QR codes hold great potential, but because of a lack of awareness they are not enjoying wide adoption.