OR Tambo International Airport has released a statement outlining why it suffered power disruptions on 12 January 2020. “A total loss of power from Eskom was reported at 10:42,” the airport said. “Our business continuity plans were activated. Back-up generators took over and various engineering and IT systems were reset at this point, the equivalent of re-booting.” The airport clarified that critical services – including fueling, baggage handling, water supply, airfield ground lighting systems, and aircraft navigational aids – were not affected by the outage. This is because all of these systems were powered by back-up generators, ensuring they were supplied with uninterrupted power. “The process of restoring Eskom loads ran from 12:40 to 13:05,” OR Tambo said. “The transition from generator to mains and back is not seamless as loads are restored in phases. Some systems require 30 minutes and more before they are again fully operational.” The airport added that systems partially affected by the Eskom outage included vehicle parking systems, non-emergency terminal righting, retail outlets, IT systems, and the international baggage handling system. OR Tambo said as part of adapting its responses to such situations, it will do three things in the future: OR Tambo management said it understood the frustrations of travellers during such situations and thanked airport visitors for their understanding. Commuters who were left in darkness at the airport posted photos and videos of the situation on social media, shown below. @ortambo_int any idea wtf is going on with the pure darkness in international arrivals??? pic.twitter.com/5B8X0rBO6L — Noob_Noonz (@noob_noonz) January 12, 2020  No power at south African main airport and pax have to use mobile phones to look for their luggage on the carousel.#travel #traveler #Johannesburg #ortambo #Eskom #eskomloadshedding #Loadshedding pic.twitter.com/HExGPM2GfA — Mervin Pearce (@mervinpearce) January 12, 2020  Sitting outside enjoying the rain with a cup of coffee watching the Boeings descending for #ORTambo they have no idea what they are about to walk in to when they get off the planes. pic.twitter.com/NllmYGRSIj — Danie Barnard (@DaanBarnard) January 12, 2020 