In a bid to solve major recent performance issues, Sage has announced that its Business Cloud Accounting website is undergoing unscheduled maintenance on Friday from 19:00 until 02:00 on Saturday morning. During this time, Sage’s Business Cloud Accounting website will be unavailable, the company said. “The maintenance is part of our performance improvement plan to address processing times on the Sage Business Cloud Accounting website,” said Sage. “We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause.” The issues have come at a poor time for users who are trying to process their invoices and other payments as part of their end-of-month procedures. Sage first confirmed on 20 January that it was experiencing performance issues on its Business Cloud Accounting platform. MyBroadband also received reports from readers that they were being affected by the issue, with some users reporting they were unable to access their accounts. Sage investigated the issue and over the past 11 days has provided a continuous loop of feedback regarding its progress. It has implemented various interim solutions in an attempt to give customers as much access to their accounts as possible while it has unsuccessfully attempted to rectify the core problem. On 24 January Sage said it had identified a network latency issue that was affecting the application, offering hope to its users that the problem may be over. It soon claimed that the situation had been stabilised; however, this was a false alarm, as users began to suffer issues again soon afterwards. Sage said it has assigned teams from both South Africa and the UK to investigate the incident, and had included its service providers and hosting partners in this investigation. Sage also implemented additional web servers to distribute traffic on Wednesday, hoping that this would help to minimise the issue in the interim. However, the company said yesterday that while the implementation had been successful, it had not achieved the desired result, and users will still suffering slow page load and processing times. Earlier today Sage announced that it had successfully completed changes to improve network load balancing, and had seen improved performance across its accounting environment. “We are gathering data to assess if the improved performance is being experienced by customers during peak times,” said Sage.