The global PoE market is expected to offer significant growth over the coming years as widespread adoption of IP communication, Wi-Fi connectivity, and increasing demand for network security cameras are projected to drive the industry demand. PoE devices are now encompassing VoIP phones, IP security cameras, wireless access points, proximity sensors, door locks, and new applications such as displays, panel PCs, LED lighting, audio speakers, and POS terminals using the latest PoE++ standard, as well as other IoT devices. Tobie van Schalkwyk, product manager for NETGEAR switch solutions at Duxbury Networking, said that it is anticipated that the global PoE market could show a growth of approximately 500% over the next five years, as widespread adoption of IP communication, Wi-Fi connectivity, and increasing demand for network security cameras are projected to drive the industry demand. PoE devices now encompass VoIP phones, IP security cameras, wireless access points, proximity sensors, door locks, and new applications such as displays, panel PCs, LED lighting, audio speakers, and POS terminals using the latest PoE++ standard, as well as other IoT devices. “We are seeing more focus on PoE LED lighting systems. There are definite customer benefits to using LED lights with PoE to transmit power and data, as it opens up opportunities to leverage Li-Fi,” said Van Schalkwyk. Harald Haas, professor of mobile communication at the University of Edinburgh, unveiled Li-Fi, or Light Fidelity for the first time in 2011. Li-Fi is a category of optical wireless communication using the same visible spectrum as used for architectural illumination. As LEDs are semi-conductor devices, the current and the optical output can be modulated at extremely high speeds, which is imperceptible to our eyes. “The data spectrum for visible light is 1,000 times greater than the RF spectrum so there’s more capacity to drive bigger bandwidths and higher data rates. Li-Fi developers have already demonstrated speeds of 224Gbps in laboratory conditions and expect 1Gbps or above. This is approximately 100 times faster than conventional Wi-Fi,” said Van Schalkwyk. “Li-Fi comes into its own with the increasing consumer need for more energy-efficient lighting systems. Li-Fi technology allows ease of use and ease of control of lighting system, all at an attractively lower price range. We are expecting these benefits to drive the growth of this market in a number of industries that include,” Van Schalkwyk points out. Netgear has an extensive range of PoE switches that leverages this growing trend and allows users to benefit from the fact that Li-Fi allows data to be contained within a tight area of illumination. This means that there is minimal risk of interference, resulting in higher levels of security. “Using PoE to provide power for the widespread adoption of IP communication is a focal point at Netgear and we invite the market to discuss the various switching options with our technical team at Duxbury,” said Van Schalkwyk. For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, www.duxbury.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Duxbury Networking.