Despite Makro’s promise to deliver all outstanding Black Friday online purchases before 24 December, many customers say they have still not received their products. MyBroadband has been contacted by a number of Black Friday shoppers who complained they have still not received their online orders as of January 2020. Customers have also continued to complain on Makro’s Facebook page and on Hellopeter about their orders not being delivered. Two Makro customers who contacted MyBroadband said they ordered products from the retailer’s online store during Black Friday – but were still waiting for their deliveries or refunds to arrive. Another said they had ordered a product from Makro on 19 December and were still waiting for their delivery. Many comments on Facebook, Hellopeter, and other public forums have complained of long order delays. A number of customers complained they had also not received any information about their expected delivery dates, while others said Makro’s customer care staff were unable to assist with the problem. Several complaints from Makro customers are quoted below: These issues were also encountered by Makro over its 2017 and 2018 festive shopping period, with the company promising early in 2019 that its service delivery would improve. Following an initial wave of complaints regarding the lack of Black Friday order deliveries, Makro told MyBroadband on 20 December 2019 that it would ensure all outstanding orders were shipped by 24 December 2019. The company acknowledged that is had experienced delays in its delivery process and apologised to customers. It attributed the late delivery to the high demand for Black Friday promotions and challenges faced by its courier partners. “The delays were exacerbated by the load-shedding and heavy rainfall experienced in the country,” added the company. Makro, however, has missed this deadline, according to scores of complaints. MyBroadband asked Makro for comment about the outstanding Black Friday deliveries, and the company said it was “with regret that we have not been able to deliver some orders that were placed during the peak season last year”. “We would like to apologise for the inconvenience that this has caused our customers,” it said. Makro also addressed several individual order delays which MyBroadband informed it about, stating that one order has since been delivered, three have been refunded and would reflect within two to five working days, and two would have their goods delivered within three working days. The company provided no additional comment on the backlog of outstanding Black Friday orders.