As we’re continually engaging with our clients and exploring what their businesses need, we know that everyone’s looking for ways to save. With this in mind, iStore Business has structured multiple ways for companies to access the latest and best technology that Apple has to offer. There are two you should consider immediately: trade-in and rental. If your business is already using Apple equipment – and your people love it, but they’d love newer, faster, better Apple devices even more – there’s the trade-in option. Or, you can use our iStore Business Leasing program to get the best possible rental rate over 24 months, with a trade-in incorporated. Either way, iStore Business has innovative options for funding your IT equipment, while getting the best possible costings in the market. And these deals apply across the core product portfolio, for MacBook, iPhone, and iPad. Here we invite clients to trade in existing Apple equipment to offset costs. We arrange a trade-in valuation at your nearest iStore where our qualified technicians will assess your goods and provide a value. Clients in Gauteng can also book a qualified Apple technician who will assist with data transfer and new device set-up to ensure a smooth transition. Example: By far the most affordable way to own a Mac is via our iStore Business Rental program, which helps you to leverage both trade-in and the best possible rental rate over 24 months. And you can extend the rental period when it ends or decide to upgrade. All rentals include warranty. Example: You already know that each time Apple releases a new model, it’s more exciting than the one before. Just when you think an Apple product can’t get better – faster, more precise, more durable – it does. And then you and your people want the new equipment for your company. So if you’ve not upgraded yet because of preconceived notions about expense, it’s time to consider trade-in or rental with trade-in. Either way, contact Contact iStore Business to find out about the Apple technology that’s within your organisation’s reach. This article was published in partnership with iStore Business.