Landline rental is popular in South Africa, but it can be expensive to pay for a monthly landline rental. This is amplified if you have Fibre or Fixed LTE Internet – as this means you must rent a line that is not offering you additional benefit via ADSL. Thankfully there is an affordable and simple solution to your landline needs – Axxess Voice. Axxess Voice is a cloud-hosted VoIP service that allows you to use your old landline number without needing to pay for landline rental. All you need to do is contact Axxess to port your number to Axxess Voice, settle your landline account, and cancel your landline rental. Numbers that can be ported include those which start with the numbers 01, 02, 03, 04, and 05. If you would rather have a new number, Axxess offers 087 numbers to new customers. One of the more attractive elements of Axxess Voice is that it can save you hundreds of rand each month in line rental costs. You only pay for your calls – which are extremely affordable at R0.39 per minute for local and national CallTime, and R0.80 for cellular CallTime. An additional bonus is that calls to other Axxess Voice subscribers are completely free! To sign up, you will need to have a good Internet connection – be it Fibre, DSL, or Fixed LTE. It is recommended that you make use of Axxess’ VoIP-enabled phones, but this isn’t mandatory. Axxess may not be the only VoIP provider in South Africa, but it offers great benefits that set it apart as a product to choose over its competition. Unlike other VoIP service providers in SA, Axxess Voice lets your unused CallTime roll over for 3 months. This means you’re able to carry over any unused CallTime for up to 90 days as long as you remain an active Axxess Voice client. Axxess Voice also gives you access to a simple, easy-to-use Control Panel that shows all the information about your telephone system. This is great for those who like to track how much they are spending on their calls. You can also use Axxess Voice on your smart phone by downloading the Axxess Voice app – which is available for both Android and iOS. You can also use it with any other compatible SIP/VoIP application for your phone. Once downloaded, you can simply open your chosen App and scan the QR code inside your Client Control Panel to preconfigure your Axxess Voice Details on your Smartphone automatically. Axxess Voice is the obvious choice for those looking to transition from the expensive, legacy landline technology on to a more affordable and modern alternative. Give Axxess a call on 0861 300 900 should you have any questions, or click here to learn more. This article was published in partnership with Axxess.