The inherent weaknesses of traditional AV have enabled cyber-criminals to adopt a new array of tools to wreak havoc. These include targeted and zero-day attacks, ransomware and APT’s. Organisations users are at risk not just of information theft and the impact on business continuity, but also the economic fallout of being targeted. Consequences could also be lawsuits and fines leveled against the company and potentially crippling reputational damage. “The level of protection delivered by EPP (Endpoint Protection) technology is still important as it protects against known threats. However, it’s become essential to have EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response) tools that detect new and unknown threats too,” explains Jeremy Matthews, CEO of Panda Security’s Sub-Saharan Operations. EDR technology enables the detection of advanced threats. Panda’s differentiated EDR approach goes further than advanced threat detection and enables a prevention first approach as well as cyber-risk profiling. In a new three-part webinar series exploring how to build cyber-resilient organisations, Matthews and Panda tech expert Matthew Stevens will: With one study estimating that 80% of personal data breaches are the result of poor patch management, technology that manages the timely implementation of software updates has become more important than ever. “The top issue in vulnerability management is that organisations aren’t prioritising their patching and compensating controls to align to vulnerabilities targeted by threat actors,” says Craig Lawson of Gartner. The IT consultancy has predicted that 99% of the vulnerabilities exploited by the end of 2020 will continue to be ones known by security and IT professionals for at least one year. Traditional AV only goes so far in protecting against today’s advanced threats – Attendees of Panda’s cyber-resilience webinar series will be able to request a complimentary evaluation of their organisations’ IT systems by Panda Security. The confidential report will uncover threats that your current AV is not detecting, as well as potential vulnerabilities that must be addressed to ensure protection from cyber threats. “For cybersecurity to be successful, a reactive, wait-and-see mindset is no longer good enough,” says Matthews. “Today’s ever-evolving threats require organisations to adopt a proactive, multi-layered approach to security and risk – one that involves real-time visibility and analysis of risk areas as well as greater control over your endpoint environment. We’re committed to helping companies make the most of available technologies to ensure their organisations and information remain safe.” The first webinar will be on 29 January 2020 at 10h00, followed by 12 February and 26 February at 10h00. Register now! This article was published in partnership with Dax Data.