Historically, mainframe environments have been the obvious choice for running applications that are critical to an enterprise’s business operations. However, developments to modern processor technologies have meant that it is now possible to get mainframe-level performance at a fraction of the cost by using Linux, UNIX, or Windows Servers technologies. Because of this, there is an industry-wide shift in how the traditional mainframe is perceived by CIOs. Instead of relying on dedicated mainframes, enterprises are looking to incorporate mainframe technologies and applications as part of the ever-evolving hybrid data centre. Mainframe-based applications are causing Enterprises several headaches when looking to the future: Mainframes are usually tailor-made to meet an organisation’s needs, but there are two pervasive languages – COBOL and PL/I. COBOL has become popular across various other platforms including Linux, UNIX, Windows, and the cloud. Organisations have also developed various mainframe-compatible technologies used by COBOL applications to help COBOL-centric IT organisations to transition mainframe technologies onto other platforms. In contrast, PL/I is almost exclusively used on the mainframe environment. These two languages are entrenched across the mainframe industry due to their dominance over time – making it difficult for other competitors to enter the market. However, they aren’t without their drawbacks, including: This inflexibility means that CIOs are not always free to make technical decisions based on business merit, but must instead limit their expectations to what their legacy technologies and suppliers can provide. There are five options available to CIOs when it comes to dealing with mainframe applications. While continuing to run on a traditional mainstream platform may be seen as perfectly suitable, for many enterprises it makes sense to lower costs and risk by modernising their mainframe applications. Research by the CIO of Tesco shows that modernising these applications can save up to 10 times the cost of implementing a new package, as well as saving up to 4 times the cost of rewriting legacy applications. Likewise, the time to value can change from up to 5 years, to as short as 4 months. While modernisation is clearly the preferred way to deal with change to mainframe applications, choosing the right people to assist you with this is crucial. Key considerations that are necessary from a good modernisation solution include: Micro Focus is a trusted name in mainframe migration, and its COBOL migration product has been used in over 600 successful projects to date. Micro Focus’s IBM mainframe migration products have been used in a further 250+ projects and helped to rehost applications that were consuming a total of over 65,000 MIPS on IBM mainframes. Micro Focus also offers PL/I language support to its migration products – ensuring that mainframes that use this language can also access the low-risk rehosting options that were previously only available for mainframe COBOL organisations. Micro Focus’s migration products offer: Through Micro Focus’s migration services, customers have experienced the following benefits: To learn more about Micro Focus’s Enterprise solution for mainframe migration, click here. This article was published in partnership with Micro Focus.