South African online marketplace bidorbuy.co.za has always taken an innovative approach to ecommerce and that is set to continue in 2020, with the launch of their reimagined and fully responsive website already having taken place. From 16 January 2020, bidorbuy has also been rolling out their refreshed look and feel – the first time in two decades that one of South Africa’s favourite online shopping destinations has made changes to its iconic brand. “The switch to the fully-responsive website included both a design overhaul and the introduction of full-functionality across both our mobile and desktop platforms,” commented bidorbuy CEO Craig Lubbe. “We also took the opportunity to infuse our well-known and much-loved brand with new vigour and a new perspective,” he added. bidorbuy has ensured that the new look renders equally well on mobile devices and desktops. Most buyers and sellers now access bidorbuy.co.za from their phones or switch between phones and computers, so it is vital that the site delivers a consistent experience across all devices. “The rebranding went much deeper than merely changing our logo, fonts and colours. The cleaner, less cluttered site not only looks great, but reflects our aim to be an approachable platform that empowers a vibrant community of buyers and sellers in South Africa. It does an even better job of communicating our unique value proposition and brand promise,” emphasised Lubbe. The goal was to retain the most compelling elements of the original brand, while introducing a more consistent and focused look and feel. The refreshed branding tells the bidorbuy story of today and expresses the energy, uniqueness and sense of community that permeates the company. It has allowed bidorbuy to innovate and to powerfully reconnect with their users. Marketing Manager, Anne-Marie Green, explained the rationale behind the rebrand: “The new brand makes it easier for people to understand what we offer and what we stand for. Yes, bidorbuy is a great online auction site for antiques and collectibles, but we’re so much more than that. Our sellers also offer brand-new, premium products including the latest smartphones and TVs on a buy-now basis.” As a company, bidorbuy is known for being genuine, direct and helpful. The rebrand means that people will get an authentic sense of this every time they visit the site or chat to any of the bidorbuy team. The company has always looked on the bright side of life – the new brand encapsulates their positivity and optimism about the future. “The bidorbuy platform is not just for buying and selling products. It is also about making it possible for people to connect and grow through shared experiences,” concluded Lubbe. Click here to learn more about bidorbuy’s #FindYourNext campaign and stand a chance to win your share of R15,000 in bobbucks vouchers. This article was published in partnership with bidorbuy.