What’s better than spending a glorious week relaxing on a tropical island? Making sure you have another week to look forward to in the near future. In 2020, however, it’s no secret that the state of the South African economy hasn’t done much for our consumer confidence. If you’re waiting to book your holidays in the hope that the exchange rate will improve and you’ll find a last-minute deal, think again. January and February in South Africa herald the arrival of Early Bird deals, making it the best time to book your 2020 holidays. “We compete with the rest of the world when it comes to space on airplanes, at resorts, in hotels, on cruise ships, etc,” said Andrew Stark, Flight Centre Travel Group Middle East Africa Managing Director. “By the time you want to travel, all the budget options have been snapped up by travellers from all over the world.” Here are 4 budget destinations that should be on your radar for early bird bookings: Don’t for a second think Cape Town is a no-go zone in Autumn and Winter. In fact, March and April are among the best months to visit the city. The pesky southeaster will have made tracks and the days are still gloriously warm and sunny. If you do happen to encounter a rainy winter day, there are a mélange of wine farms whose award-winning vintages will warm your soul. A short hop from South Africa, Zanzibar pairs a taste of the exotic with an affordable beach retreat great for families and couples. This is one destination where you don’t need to spend months planning your visit. Visit a spice farm, head out on a dhow for a snorkelling trip or roam around the UNESCO-listed Stone Town. It’s affordable and easy to get there and around. The golden city in the desert is super easy for South Africans to visit, thanks to direct flights from Durban, Cape Town and Johannesburg and an array of accommodation options and attractions. Take a stroll around the Old Souq and Gold Souq for some retail therapy, board an ambra boat at Dubai Creek or hit the beach – all great options that won’t break the bank. A firm favourite among South African families and couples, Mauritius offers a very affordable and convenient getaway, only four hours away. Stay on the northwest coast and enjoy beach, pool and restaurant facilities without ever having to leave the comfort of your resort. If you’re travelling with a family, the good news is that kids under 12 fly free. “You’re looking at prices up to 30% cheaper than what you would pay if you waited until later in the year,” said Stark of early booking. “We’ve also provided some peace of mind by putting in place a Price Drop Protection, so that even if the rand exchange rate fluctuates, South African travelers are still guaranteed to get the best price for their flight no matter when they book.” Ready to seek out those early bird deals in the marketplace and grab them with both hands? Flight Centre’s Early Bird Sale is now on. This article was published in partnership with Flight Centre.