WhatsApp Business offers great opportunities for brands to increase their reach and visibility. This popular messaging channel empowers businesses to create extraordinary value for customers and improve brand engagement. The question, however, is how exactly this is achieved. Prime Meridian, Cash Crusaders, and Hello Paisa implemented the WhatsApp Business solution to improve customer engagement and brand experience in creative ways. Here’s how they did it: Since 2009, Prime Meridian Direct has offered affordable motor insurance in South Africa. As a first for the insurance space, Prime Meridian Direct introduced the WhatsApp Business solution to make the submission of pre-vehicle inspection and claims photos as simple and pleasant as can be. The solution adds immense value in getting more clients to submit their photos at both inception and claims. In turn, it allows more clients to be covered with the right insurance, which is the main goal of Prime Meridian Direct. Moreover, with the introduction of WhatsApp, claims are processed quicker. That saves Prime Meridian Direct time, whilst offering the best possible service for their clients. The result: Turnaround times within existing processes is reduced from days into minutes, without the need for any backlog. David Holliday, Shared Services Manager said, “The great part about WhatsApp as a channel for Prime Meridian Direct is that it’s scalable and will be able to support our clients as the business grows in the future.” Cash Crusaders, a retailer specialising in buying and selling both second hand and brand-new products through over 220 stores, was looking to increase the response rate from clients looking to sell products online. They were using standard email templates that are sent to clients with each transaction. Now, they’ve included their WhatsApp number on those emails, promoting WhatsApp as a customer care channel. Traffic immediately started coming in through the chat app, proving once more that people appreciate and even prefer this channel for customer care. Both customers and franchisors can initiate the conversation whenever they want. The result: Lunique Kroucamp-Theunissen, Group Marketing Manager at Cash Crusaders Franchising said, “Since we onboarded WhatsApp Business via CM.com, we have successfully closed more deals and could reach 3 times more of our customer base via messaging communication compared to when we were only using SMS and email. SMS and email weren’t getting the required results.” The main problem facing the migrant workforce in South Africa is the complicated process of sending money home and the inherent high costs of doing so. Hello Paisa’s solution to the problem is its easy-to-use money remittance app that enables customers to send cash to countries across the world. With the Hello Paisa app, all you need is an active account and your mobile phone to easily create a transaction and send money home instantly. The high cost of data, however, remains a factor that prevents many customers from accessing the app. And that’s where WhatsApp Business comes in. From the comfort of a popular messaging channel for their customer base, Hello Paisa customers can now conveniently, easily and cost-effectively initiate transactions, obtain exchange rates, view transaction history, create or delete a recipient, and refer a friend. The result: The ability to initiate transactions through WhatsApp not only solves the problem of prohibitive data costs, but also translates into increased accessibility and greater inclusivity of Hello Paisa’s customer base. Solution-thinking at its best. These are just a few examples on how WhatsApp can help you strengthen your brand and improve customer satisfaction. These examples will help tap into your creativity for engaging campaigns with your own WhatsApp Business account. If you are wondering how to promote WhatsApp Business as a customer support channel, there are a few ways in which you can collect customer opt-ins for WhatsApp Business. Nothing delivers customer satisfaction quite like excellent communication. Are you ready to put your customer communication first? To find out more, visit the CM.com website. This article was published in partnership with CM.com.