The recent resignation of Eskom chair Jabu Mabuza is the latest symptom of a big power struggle over the power utility, according to a report by The Sunday Times. Deputy President David Mabuza has reportedly accused public enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan of misleading President Cyril Ramaphosa into believing that there would be no load-shedding until 13 January. Following the implementation of load-shedding in the past week, Jabu Mabuza apologised to the president and resigned from his position as Eskom chairperson. According to the report, several other Eskom board members are preparing to resign following Mabuza’s example, including Sindisiwe Mabaso-Koy, who tendered her resignation to Gordhan on Thursday. The situation at Eskom has lead Gordhan’s detractors, including deputy president David Mabuza, to call for political responsibility for Eskom to shift to energy minister Gwede Mantashe. Sources told The Sunday Times that the deputy president is frustrated with Gordhan for blocking the appointment of his allies at state-owned companies. According to the report, Mabuza has been unhappy with Gordhan’s habit of going over his head to report to Ramaphosa directly on Eskom-related issues. ANC Women’s League president Bathabile Dlamini has echoed the deputy president’s perspective, arguing that the government should move Eskom away from Gordhan’s department of public enterprises and to the department of energy. “You can’t have the strategy of energy in one department and in another department have Eskom having a different strategy,” she said. Ramaphosa has stated that deputy president Mabuza is fully capable of leading the Eskom recovery effort. “The deputy president will continue to lead the process to ensure we do reach stability in Eskom through the war room; he is going to continue leading with other ministers.” Despite Ramaphosa’s confidence in the public enterprise minister, anti-Gordhan sentiment has reportedly infiltrated the faction which backs Ramaphosa, with members of the national executive committee appearing frustrated with the minister’s lack of results. If energy minister Gwede Mantashe gains oversight of the Eskom recovery effort, this may result in the stagnation of renewable energy projects which may prolong load-shedding at the power utility, according to a recent report by Bloomberg. Increased use of solar and wind energy would reduce South Africa’s reliance on coal, which is currently used to generate the bulk of electricity used in South Africa. However, the adoption of this technology would spell bad news for around 87,000 coal miners, many of which are part of the national union which Mantashe led from 1998 to 2006. Mantashe does not believe in privatisation and is a trade unionist at heart, an analyst told Bloomberg.