LG is set to unveil a new range of TVs and displays at CES 2020. The company announced that “advanced display products” for aeroplanes, cars, homes, and offices will revealed – and will “prove how display technologies can further expand” to meet users’ lifestyles. The new displays are detailed below. “LG will upgrade the in-flight experiences for passengers with its innovative OLED displays,” said the company. This includes an OLED video wall, made of several 55-inch OLED displays, which will be fitted to the inside of a plane’s cabin. LG will also present OLED displays that will “elevate the first-class experience”. First-class passengers will each get 65-inch bendable OLED screens, which allows them to adjust the curve of the display to their preferences. “The company will also unveil a 55-inch transparent OLED display, with 40% transparency, for use as a partition in the cabin,” said LG. “This screen can show videos and information, and if the passengers prefer privacy, they can turn the visor feature off.” For homes, LG will unveil its new Cinematic Sound OLED displays. The TV’s sound system is embedded into the display to generate sound directly from it. “On show will be a 77-inch UHD Film Cinematic Sound and Wallpaper OLED display to be hung like wallpaper,” said the company. LG also has an 88-inch 8K Cinematic Sound OLED display in store, it added. Additionally, the company plans to show off a 65-inch UHD “Roll-Down OLED display”. “It is stored in the ceiling [of your home] and can be pulled down when desired and rolled up when not in use. It is expected to raise the level of smart home interior by maximizing use of space.” In-vehicle displays are another area of development for LG, it said. “The company will showcase its Plastic OLED displays for automobiles. On display will be a super-size dashboard with four POLED automotive displays, including the company’s 14-inch Cluster, 12.3-inch Center Information Display, 12.3-inch Co-Driver Display, and 12.8-inch Control Pad Display, combined together in a single cover glass.” Touchscreen displays for use in schools and offices – including an 86-inch LCD touch unit – are additional products to be showcased. CES 2020 will run from 7-10 January in Las Vegas.