The unstoppable surge in remote working calls for businesses to acquire software solutions that allow for secure and effective access to office-bound workstations from any location or device. This is because employees need to use systems or tools installed on these workstations, or access files stored on them, to remain productive. With conventional server-based virtualisations limited and not supporting the capabilities of a true modern workstation, businesses need a Windows Virtual Desktop (WVD) solution. WVD is hosted and managed in Microsoft’s Azure cloud platform, which provides high performance while reducing on-premise assets. This allows your employees to access any Windows 10 app or files located on a central workstation remotely from any authorised device via the WVD app or web portal. Unlike Windows Server solutions, it runs directly on the OS, which ensures faster and more reliable performance. Netsurit’s Managed WVD is a comprehensive desktop and app virtualisation service that allows you to manage WVD users and security via a unified administrative interface in the Azure Portal. Netsurit’s service arm – Inobits – handles the overarching service, which means there is a reduced burden on your IT teams’ workloads. Network administrators do not have to worry about any complexity that comes with managing brokers, gateways, and web servers, for example. This solution is the only virtual desktop channel that offers the following features: This solution is ideal for businesses that use Remote Desktop Services, but want to simplify licencing and reduce costs. Likewise, it can also be great for seasonal workforces who need access to a secure, modern, up-to-date Windows 10 experience in the cloud. Key benefits of Netsurit’s Managed WVD include: Netsurit will work with you to assist in transitioning your workforce from a server-based desktop to a seamless multi-user Windows 10 experience that’s highly scalable and always up to date. Its unified WVD service can be deployed and scaled in minutes and supports multiple end-user platforms – including Windows, Android, Mac, iOS, and HTML 5. Click here to learn more about the Netsurit Managed Windows Virtual Desktop or email solutions@netsurit.com. This article was published in partnership with Netsurit.