China Mobile International is launching its inaugural Go mCloud Carnival on 12 December to celebrate its tenth year of operations. The Go mCloud Carnival is designed to help customers stay on top of the latest digital trends and to embark on their cloud transformation journey while receiving a plethora of added value through its mCloud service. Online attendees will be shown a variety of cloud solutions that are offered by China Mobile International and its global partners, and they can also register on the mCloud website to trial the service. This trial comes with a gift worth up to USD 20, which includes a choice between: You will also receive the following benefits by virtue of registering for the event: China Mobile International has also launched its Acceleration to Cloud Program, whereby customers who sign new iSolutions orders worth over HKD 50,000 (approximately R100,000) will receive mCloud coupons for cloud services worth up to $10,000 (approximately R150,000) based on their contract volume. China Mobile International South Africa is now running a promotion to encourage South Africans to register on the mCloud portal. The first five enterprise customers in South Africa who register on the portal and request and use a $800 HUAWEI Cloud voucher will receive a free HUAWEI Band Pro 3 smartwatch. It does not cost you anything to do this, and you will receive two free benefits – the voucher and the smartwatch – making this promotion a no-brainer. This promotion will expire at 12pm on 25 December 2020, so don’t delay. It is recommended that you add your South African email address so that it easy to contact you and arrange for delivery should you win the prize. mCloud is China Mobile International’s cloud-network integration platform that provides customers with visible, accessible, and manageable cloud-network solutions. Since its launch in May 2019, mCloud has helped over 7,000 enterprise customers deploy and manage a variety of innovative cloud and network products. It incorporates all the world’s leading cloud service providers – such as AWS, Alibaba Cloud, HUAWEI Cloud, Google Cloud, and Azure. Thanks to its automated and intelligent products, mCloud reduces cloud deployment time from one or two months to 30 seconds. This article was published in partnership with China Mobile.