Most South Africans experience the Internet through their mobile phones. Whether it be through Facebook, Google or WhatsApp, once they have had access to the net and the possibilities it presents, it becomes an important part of their lives. However, an estimated third of South African smart phone owners can’t afford the data to use the internet or update the software on their phones. Standard Bank Mobile is an exclusive offering which is only available to Standard Bank customers. You must have a qualifying Standard Bank transactional cheque account or credit card. “Standard Bank Mobile focuses on being more than just about phones, we focus more on offering reliable and affordable connection,” explained Stephen Bailey, Head of Mobile Virtual Network Operation at Standard Bank. Whether you are buying, paying, or spending the little that you have, with Standard Bank Mobile, your money goes the extra mile to keep you connected to your dreams. Be amongst the first to experience convenience and flexibility of a mobile network like never before and get this in return: You can purchase your new device at the Standard Bank device store on your credit card at a special rate of 11% per annum and enjoy affordable monthly repayments. Bank for your buck – this is what it costs: “We are seeing an incredible uptake of smartphone users, but don’t see the same level of uptake of Internet access. This is because people that are buying smart phone devices generally struggle to afford data to keep their phones up to date, let along use the internet as they please and this is where Standard Bank Mobile comes to play,” said Bailey. Mobile phones have changed the way we live and work. No matter the location, whatever the time, we have grown accustom to constant available contact and with Standard Bank Mobile, your money goes an extra mile to keep you connected to your dreams. For more information about Standard Bank Mobile, simply visit https://www.mobile.standardbank.co.za/, download the banking app, or visit your nearest branch. This article was published in partnership with Standard Bank.