By Emile Biagio, CTO of Sintrex Sintrex recently hosted a coaching company to enlighten our staff on their personality types and behavior patterns… One of those really cool HR session where you learn a lot about yourself and your colleagues. I arrived at the office about 15 minutes before the session started and checked in with the facilitator to make sure everything was ok – which it wasn’t. She was panicking. She arrived early to set up and her laptop, but it did not want to project her slides. “That’s not a problem,” I said to calm her down, “we’ll just get our tech support in to assist.” “They’ve already been here and could not assist,” she responded. Really?! Wednesday Thursday Friday! Apparently, the engineer walked in, looked at the setup, said, “Oh, it’s a MAC,” shrugged his shoulders and walked out. Just like that. Now, I thought long and hard about this (after the fact). That’s the biggest question I had. Why would an engineer simply refuse to try and assist? It then became a discussion point within my network of friends and we’d reminisce about the good old days when we used to do tech support and there was just no opt out. You owned a problem until it was resolved. No. Matter. What. It forced us to try different things, test scenarios in labs and replicate the problems until we found solutions. We used to communicate with each other, with service providers and whoever we thought might be able to give us just one more thing to try. It worked! We solved problems, all of them! Is this something that’s been lost? Do our millennials or GenX’s just walk away when there is no quick fix? Have we created too many silos in IT and confined technologists to certain boundaries?  Is this why systems struggle? Do we only look after our little portion of the problem and fail to see the bigger picture? I may still struggle to understand the logic of what happened – and I’ll keep trying – but it took me 5 minutes to get the MAC projecting. Without Google ;-) This article was published in partnership with Sintrex.