A report by Jon Peddie Research (JPR) has found that AMD sold more PC graphics cards than Nvidia did in the fourth quarter of 2019. According to the research, AMD shipments increased by 22.6%, while Nvidia’s decreased by 1.9%. This resulted in AMD boasting 19% of the global PC graphics card market share, while Nvidia has 18%. Intel still leads the market with 63% of all graphics card shipments, however, owing largely to its integrated GPUs. According to JPR, graphics card shipments increased by 3.4% compared to the previous quarter. “This is the third consecutive quarter of increased GPU shipments,” said Jon Peddie, president of Jon Peddie Research. “However, Q1, which is seasonally flat to down, may show an unusual dip because of supply chain interruptions from China due to the coronavirus epidemic.” “2020 is going to be a game-changer with Intel’s entry into the discrete GPU market and a possible fourth entry by an IP company,” Peddie added. Graphics cards are usually a good indicator of the PC market, said JPR, as every PC gets a graphic card before it is shipped. “Most of the PC vendors are guiding optimistically for next quarter. Their estimates average to a 7% increase,” said JPR. AMD unveiled four new graphics cards at CES 2020 in January. This included two new cards for desktops – the Radeon RX 5600 XT and the RX 5600. These cards are intended to offer high performance at 1080p and reportedly offer twice the performance-per-watt of the RX 590. According to AMD, the top-end Radeon RX 5600 XT also boasts a 20% performance increase over its direct competitor – Nvidia’s GeForce GTX 1660 Ti. “Built on AMD RDNA architecture and industry-leading 7nm process technology, alongside high-bandwidth PCIe 4.0 technology and high-speed GDDR6 memory, AMD Radeon RX 5600 series graphics deliver ultra-high levels of performance and power efficiency,” said AMD. New features include Radeon Boost – which increases frame rates and fluidity when gaming – and Radeon Anti-Lag, which reduces input-to-display response times. Theses graphics cards are not yet available in South Africa. The RX 5600 XT has a recommended retail price of $279 (R4,000).