Huawei has partnered with the Department of Communications and Digital Technologies to offer 5G training to IT students at Walter Sisulu University. The training will take place on three different campuses – Mthatha, Butterworth, and East London – and will be targeted at a group of 100 final year IT students. “The 5G training is designed to enable students to understand 5G protocol standardization, key industry applications, ecosystems, network architecture and key technologies,” the Department of Communications and Digital Technologies said. “It forms part of the Minister’s multi-stakeholder collaboration of ‘Building A Capable 4IR Army’ and will be rolled out at other identified institutions across the country.” The Mthatha training will take place on 21 and 22 February 2020, while the Butterworth and East London training will take place on 24 and 25 February. Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams will also engage with local business people, academics, media members, traditional leaders, and faith-based organisations after the Mthatha training session. “We’re proud to partner with Walter Sisulu University,”said Huawei South Africa CEO Spawn Fan. “We appreciate that WSU is a developmental university, focused on urban renewal and rural development through science, technology and innovation, which aligns perfectly with Huawei’s vision.” Fan said the programme forms part of Huawei’s ICT Talent Ecosystem Program to grow and support ICT training in South Africa – especially in new technologies such as 5G, artificial intelligence and cloud and data services.” “Digital skills transfer is critical for today’s students to gain capabilities relevant in the emerging 4IR era. This era is underpinned by the mass connectivity of 5G – hence Huawei’s commitment to 5G training,” Fan added. Huawei has shown its commitment to 5G in South Africa in the past, including the completion of a 5G trial with MTN in November 2019. However, the company believes South Africa needs to streamline its 5G site approval processes to allow 5G coverage to expand. David Chen, VP of Huawei’s Southern African Region, previously said that South Africa’s current site approval systems might not be able to cope with the expected large volumes of 5G site applications. Chen also said he believes the site application process will need to be automated, and this should be done as soon as possible. “Cities must start preparing themselves now for a drastic increase in site applications to use city furniture like street lights to install connectivity sites,” said Chen. “It is within the power of cities to ensure that the policy environment for the approval of sites and their construction in the cities are supportive and enabling.”