Microsoft has unveiled the specifications of its upcoming Xbox Series X gaming console. “Xbox Series X is our fastest, most powerful console ever, designed for a console generation that has you at its center,” said head of Xbox Phil Spencer. “This means a high-fidelity gaming experience enclosed in a quiet and bold design, with the ability to discover thousands of games across four generations, all with more playing and less waiting.” The Series X offers 12 teraflops of GPU performance – which is twice that of the Xbox One X and eight times that of the original Xbox One. This is powered by a custom-designed processor which uses AMD’s Zen 2 and RDNA 2 architectures. The Xbox Series X also offers hardware-accelerated DirectX ray tracing, which is a first for consoles. Variable Rate Shading (VRS) has also been added to the Series X, which allows for the efficient use of the console’s hardware and results in improved framerates and higher resolution gaming. “The next console generation will be defined by more playing and less waiting,” said Spencer. “When play begins, we know many gamers demand ultra-low latency to be as immersed and precise as possible.” “To this end, the team analyzed every step between player and game, from controller to console to display, and asked how we could make it faster.” To achieve this, the Xbox Series X uses a next-generation SSD, which Microsoft said will improve load times and allow for larger game worlds. A Quick Resume feature has been implemented which allows gamers to leave several games dormant, and when the gamer wants to play them again, the game will load almost instantly. The Series X also uses a custom-built CPU from AMD, with this CPU and the console’s design offering four times the processing power of the Xbox One X. Other improvements to performance include 4K 60fps gaming, dynamic latency input – an improved wireless protocol for faster controller response times – and 120fps support. Microsoft has ensured that the new Xbox will be able to play games from previous-generation consoles – all the way down to the original Xbox. Older games will have steady framerates, improved load times, and better visuals, Microsoft said. Gamers will also be able to use their Xbox One accessories, Microsoft said, and Xbox Game Pass will be compatible with the Series X. Smart Delivery is a new technology which will allow gamers to buy a game once, and play it on whichever console they decide. This means that if you purchase a game that is only available on Xbox One originally but becomes available on Xbox Series X at a later stage, you will not have to repurchase the game. Spencer said that the Xbox Series X has been designed to offer the best possible experience for gamers. “Xbox Series X represents that same commitment for players who want immediate immersion in games that also look and feel better than ever,” he said. “Whether it’s empowering amazing creators at our 15 Xbox Game Studios, fueling game discovery with Xbox Game Pass, or expanding what and where you can play with Project xCloud, Team Xbox stands for frictionless pathways between players and the best experiences our remarkable art form has to offer.” Spencer said more information about the Xbox Series X will be unveiled in the coming months.