Google has released a statement detailing what Huawei’s US Entity listing means for the smartphone manufacturer’s upcoming devices. “Google is prohibited from working with Huawei on new device models or providing Google’s apps including Gmail, Maps, YouTube, the Play Store and others for preload or download on these devices,” the company said. “We have continued to work with Huawei, in compliance with government regulations, to provide security updates and updates to Google’s apps and services on existing devices, and we will continue to do so as long as it is permitted.” Google said it continues to receive questions about Google apps and services running on Huawei devices launched after 16 May 2019, with many users wondering whether they can sideload apps like Gmail, YouTube, and Google Maps onto these devices regardless of the ban. “Due to government restrictions, Google’s apps and services are not available for preload or sideload on new Huawei devices.” “To protect user data privacy, security, and safeguard the overall experience, the Google Play Store, Google Play Protect, and Google’s core apps (including Gmail, YouTube, Maps, and others) are only available on Play Protect certified devices,” Google said. The company added that Play Protect-certified devices undergo a rigorous security review and compatibility testing process to ensure user data is kept safe. “Because of the government restrictions described above, new Huawei device models made available to the public after May 16, 2019, have not been able to go through this security process nor will they have Play Protect preloaded,” Google said. “As a result, they are considered ‘uncertified’ and will not be able to utilize Google’s apps and services.” “In addition, sideloaded Google apps will not work reliably because we do not allow these services to run on uncertified devices where security may be compromised.” Google added that sideloading apps like Gmail and YouTube also carries a high risk of installing an app that has been tampered with in ways that can compromise user security.