Municipal emergency services are allowed to charge you for call-outs, depending on what they are called out for. According to the Fire Brigade Services Act, a controlling authority can charge fees for the attendance of the service, for the use of the service and equipment, or for any material consumed. This had led to situations where residents in several municipalities have been charged thousands of rands for fire department call-outs. One Johannesburg resident was invoiced for over R6,000 by the fire department for their help in putting out a fire which completely destroyed her home. “Communities are expected to pay for the services rendered by the fire department – just like any other services offered by the City of Johannesburg. There is a perception that the services are free, which is not correct,” Johannesburg EMS told the Randburg Sun. MyBroadband spoke to the City of Tshwane and the City of Cape Town about the practice of charging for call-outs. Tshwane’s emergency services department confirmed that a call-out fee was charged by the fire department based on the resource type required and a further utilisation cost. “Fees are for actual working of a resource type at an incident and subject to any exemptions that may be applicable for a particular incident,” it said. Citizens are invoiced for the amount owed as part of their monthly municipal bill, and they can contest these fees by submitting a request to the municipality. “Billing is in accordance with council policy, and a resident who has utilised the service will be invoiced for such service as part of his/her monthly service utilities invoice from the City, but only after it has been confirmed against the exemptions provided for in the Tariff Policy that such a resident is liable for such fees payable,” the department said. “Provision is further made that, should a person who is billed for emergency services be aggrieved by the fees payable, such a person may submit a request for a reassessment of the fees payable. This is in accordance with Section 10(3) of the Fire Brigade Services Act, 1987.” It should be noted that the fire department does not charge for urban search and rescue operations, including confined space rescue, trench rescue, structural collapse rescue, water rescue, rope rescue, and other specialist rescue operations. The approved call-out and hourly utilisation cost for Tshwane’s fire and rescue operations are shown below: The above gives an idea of how much it costs for vehicle and equipment call-outs, but the fire department may also charge citizens for the cost of firefighting materials. The cost of dry chemical powder (DCP), carbon dioxide, and other extinguishing resources is listed below. City of Cape Town executive director for safety and security Richard Bosman told MyBroadband that their charges depend on the category of the call-out. “Emergency responses are categorised in various categories which are determined on arrival at an incident by the responding incident commander and the levy charged is in respect of a category applied,” Bosman said. He added that house fires, accidents, and other emergencies fall under category 1 and would not incur a charge by the municipality. Bosman detailed the categories as follows: The cost per category for vehicle call-outs is detailed below. The price listed for each category is per 15 minutes of utilisation or part thereof.