With Janu-worry thankfully far behind us, don’t wait any longer to plan your holidays for the year. In the world of travel, the early bird gets the worm. Hop on the best travel deals by joining in the most anticipated event on every South African traveller’s calendar – the Flight Centre Travel Group’s annual Travel Expo. The popular event will run for three days this weekend, from 28 February to 01 March 2020. Travel Expo 2020 returns for its tenth year – but with an interesting twist. For the first time, the Travel Expo is popping up nationwide. All the Expo deals will be exclusively available at the 121 Flight Centre and Cruiseabout stores across the country. In response to requests from customers to make deals more accessible to all South Africans and not just those living in Johannesburg, the 2020 Travel Expo will not be in only one central venue: previously the Ticketpro Dome in Johannesburg. “There is no admission fee or the need to book tickets. Walk into your nearest store this weekend and get chatting to your local Flight Centre expert,” said Andrew Stark, Flight Centre Travel Group Managing Director, Middle East and Africa. This weekend, savvy travellers can snap up exclusive up-to-half-price travel deals and win luxury holidays at the Flight Centre Travel Group’s Travel Expo. 2020’s Travel Expo deals will include up to 50% off flights, touring, cruises, beach holidays, local getaways and more. Deals on offer will include: These 500+ travel deals will only be available at Flight Centre and Cruiseabout stores over the weekend. Flight deals will be available online on the Flight Centre website. Lucky customers could also snap up incredible prizes, including: For competition details, follow Flight Centre and Cruiseabout on social media and listen to your favourite radio stations (947, Jacaranda, Hot 91.9FM, Kfm and East Coast Radio). Don’t miss out on the most hyped-up event on the South African travel calendar. For more details on the Travel Expo, visit travelexpo.co.za and follow them on social media using the hashtag #TravelExpo20. This article was published in partnership with Flight Centre.