MTN said its efforts to combat battery theft at its cell tower base stations are seeing good results. According to the mobile operator, it recovered 143 batteries worth R1.2 million in January. However, it has also reported an increase in battery theft incidents. “Recent statistics show that 703 batteries were stolen from MTN stations in January 2020 with a total of 122 incidents,” said MTN. “Cable theft also increased over December and January, with 109 incidents in January.” MTN General Manager for Network Operations Ernest Paul said criminal syndicates are looking for ways around the security measures network operators are implementing. “This has again raised the bar for the industry and the public, working hand-in-hand hand with law enforcement and security companies,” said Paul. “A lot more work needs to be done to stay a step ahead, especially as vandalism at base stations can keep many consumers offline for long periods, or even completely destroy the base station, leaving people with no access at all.” MTN highlighted that three suspects who were apprehended in October 2019 by Bidvest Protea Coin and SAPS have been convicted. “A total of eight MTN Lithium-Ion Batteries and eight Telkom Lead-Acid batteries were recovered, and sentences of between 5-10 years were meted out by the magistrate on 28 January for the offence of tampering with essential infrastructure,” said MTN. Paul said this is an excellent breakthrough and congratulated the Madelene SAPS as well as Bidvest Protea Coin. “What this and the other small successes show is that when the public, industry and security and police forces work together, we can make a dent in criminal activity.” “However, as recent trends indicate, there is still much to be done and we must anticipate a greater fightback from criminals and sophisticated syndicates in the months ahead and be ready.” MTN said that new rounds of load-shedding have increased the risks on mobile networks, with battery back-up systems taking strain. According to MTN, their battery back-up systems take 12-18 hours to recharge and have a capacity of 6-12 hours. “Network coverage is lost if we do not have batteries, while cases of vandalism, cable theft and diesel theft remain high,” said Paul. “We need everyone to join forces if we are to truly fight back against the sophisticated syndicates behind these crimes, and MTN is certainly doing that early in 2020 to ensure we limit the damage and ensure our customers still get quality network coverage.”