While most smartphones are getting wider and thinner, ruggedised phones are an exception. So, if you’re looking for a phone that’ll slip into your hip pocket, Blackview’s new BV9800 Pro isn’t for you. But if you need an Android phone that is about as close to indestructible as you can find, packed full of features that make it great for commercial use and for outdoor recreation alike, it delivers, and for a much lower price than similarly featured competitors. The Blackview BV9800 Pro is the first thermal camera phone designed for the outdoor adventurer. Besides being super rugged, able to offer accurate navigation, and take high-resolution images the BV9800 Pro also offers up a FLIR Lepton thermal-imaging camera. The FLIR camera lets you capture an image of the heat signature of anything around you. Blackview launched its latest rugged flagship on the Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign, BV9800 Pro. In a week, the device (along with the BV9800 standard version) attracted more than 800 backers, raising over $340,000 in funds; nearly 2680% over the expected funding. The key difference between the BV9800 Pro and the BV9800 are the camera features. Both phones come with IP68 /IP69K/MIL-STD-810G certification and they can withstand water, dust, and drops that are very often when working outside or go on outdoor trips. The last category of users would find the GPS, GLONASS, and BeiDou navigation systems support, very handy. Lastly, both come with a 6580mAh battery for long use on a single charge. What’s more, the phones are packed with top of the line components, including a potent MediaTek Helio P70 octa-core SoC backed by 6GB of RAM and 128GB of storage, allowing them to compete against other, more expensive rugged smartphones. This smartphone also offers a super-high-resolution 48MP Sony camera. That’s a lot of megapixels! The big, built-in Sony camera has a night mode setting that helps capture stunning images in extremely low-light situations and offers a super-wide 120-degree lens. The 2340 x 1080 6.3-inch display is bright and easy to read. The unit I’ve been testing is all black, but there is also an easier-to-see orange color available. The phone supports NFC, and it has a custom function button on the left side that can be used for push-to-talk or re-programmed to one of a number of shortcuts. The smartphone runs the current version of Android Pie, which has not been customised much. There are no noticeable visual changes, and the only additions are the “Toolbox” folder and FLIR software. The BV9800 Pro uses GPS, GLONASS, and BEIDOU to offer superior navigation accuracy from such a compact device. This trifecta, along with an air-pressure-detection gauge for altitude measurements, is super helpful for navigation, no matter if you’re traveling by vehicle or foot in open or jungle-like conditions. The phone is IP68, IP69K, and MIL-STD-810G. Those standards mean that the phone is waterproof up to 1.5 m for 30 minutes, drop-proof from 1.5 m, and all-around dustproof. The phone is clearly on the right path to be the leader in a niche market. The BV9800 Pro will sell for R12,999. To find out more, visit the Blackview website, contact them via info@blackview.co.za, or call 087 5511 587. This article was published in partnership with Blackview.