Apple has revealed the in-depth specification sheets for its Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR. The documents were posted on Monday and contain extensive information about the technology behind the workstation and monitor. The first sheet provides an overview of the Mac Pro’s hardware – including its Intel Xeon chip, memory, PCI Express slots, graphics, and I/O. The second – concerning the Pro Display XDR – delves into the monitor’s LED backlighting system, LCD panel, physical materials, and display characteristics. The documents also include recommendations from Apple about which type of configuration users should consider for their needs. The Mac Pro specification sheet includes details on Apple’s claimed performance increases. Several sites carried out their own benchmarks which compare the previous Mac Pro with the current generation, but Apple has now detailed official numbers. The company said the new processor makes the system up to 6.5-times faster than the old 12-core Mac Pro, depending on the application for which it is used. Additionally, the GPU is up to 6.8-times faster than the dual FirePro D700 in the 2013 Mac Pro. Apple warned that the Mac Pro could draw a lot of power and recommended that owners carefully consider their chosen configuration. It said that “facility power sources should be carefully considered to avoid overloading a given circuit, especially for a fully configured system with displays and accessories, or multiple Mac Pro systems”. Among the features detailed in the second specification sheet, Apple explained how its ambient light adjustment on the Pro Display XDR would work. The display boasts two ambient light sensors – one on the front and one on the rear – to adjust brightness, white point and black levels automatically according to the lighting environment in which it is placed. Apple also noted that the promised 1,000 nits brightness can only be sustained in temperatures up to 25 degrees celsius. The full specification sheets for the Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR below.  