ESET, a global leader in cybersecurity, has been recognised with gold and bronze awards in the AV-Comparatives Summary Report 2019. AV-Comparatives, a leading independent testing organisation, uses one of the largest sample collections worldwide to create a real-world environment for highly accurate testing. Their Summary Report 2019 provides commentary on the consumer antivirus products tested over the course of the year, and highlights the high-scoring products from the different tests that took place over the 12 months. The report looked at consumer Windows products from 16 different vendors, with excellent results for ESET, taking awards in three categories: Overall Performance (Low System Impact), Enhanced Real-World Test (Advanced Threat Protection), and the False Positive Test. ESET was awarded a gold medal in the Low System Impact category, which assesses each product’s impact on system speed and performance. ESET has consistently achieved great results in this category, improving on its silver award in the same category in 2018. ESET took a gold medal in the Advanced Threat Protection category, which is a new category for 2019 and 2020. This test addresses a program’s ability to protect against advanced targeted and fileless attacks. ESET was also one of only two vendors to block all 15 targeted attacks in the testing process. ESET was awarded a bronze medal in the False Positive Test. As the report notes, false positives can cause as much trouble as a real infection, and avoiding them is a crucial element of any antivirus product. AV-Comparatives carried out extensive false-positive testing as part of the Malware protection tests and the Real-World Protection Test. “ESET’s recognition from AV-Comparatives is testament to its dedication to its customers and our promise to always deliver the best in IT security solutions.“ Ensuring consumers are equipped with cutting-edge protection against the latest threats is extremely important to us. We are honored to receive these awards and to be recognised as a key player in making technology safer for everyone,“ said ESET. Read AV-Comparative’s Summary Report 2019 for more information – included as an adendum to this release. For further information on AV-Comparative Summary Report 2019, click here. Click here to find out more about how ESET can be the ultimate guardian of your online safety. This article was published in partnership with ESET.