Samsung’s foldable Galaxy Z Flip has proven extremely popular in South Africa, with all available devices selling out over the past weekend. “Global sales opened on 21 February 2020 and South African performance echoed the same day sold out success seen in the United States of America, United Kingdom, South Korea and many other markets,” Samsung said. “With limited stock available many flocked to Galaxy Z Flip Samsung Studios across the country to be amongst the first people in the world to get their hands on the revolutionary device.” Samsung said the second batch of Galaxy Z Flip smartphones would be available in South Africa on 28 February 2020. The company has set up Galaxy Z Flip pop-up studios in Sandton City, Canal Walk, and Gateway shopping centres, as well as Vodacom World. These will continue over the next weekend, allowing South Africans to try out the new foldable device. The Galaxy Z Flip sports a clamshell folding design with the main display folding along the horizontal axis. The device sports a main 6.7-inch OLED display with a resolution of 2,636 x 1,080 and a smaller 1.06-inch 300 x 116 panel on the back. In terms of internal hardware, the Z Flip ships with a Snapdragon 855+ processor, 8GB of RAM, 256GB of internal storage, and a 3,300mAh battery. Samsung’s rear camera features two 12MP lenses – one wide and one ultra-wide. The front of the Z Flip sports a punch-hole 10MP camera with autofocus. “This is a device that bends the laws of physics with its bold, stylish design. It’s, therefore, no surprise that so many South Africans have seized the opportunity to be some of the lucky few to own it,” said Samsung South Africa integrated mobility director Justin Hume. “For those who aren’t afraid to make a statement, the Galaxy Z Flip is an opportunity to experience the world in a whole new way. We look forward to hearing from new Galaxy Z Flip customers over the next few weeks.“ The Galaxy Z Flip is priced at R29,999 and is available in Mirror Purple and Mirror Black. Customers who purchase the Galaxy Z Flip will receive a free Samsung Care+ service plan that covers one free inner screen replacement over 12 months.