Malicious parties are targeting users’ Google AdSense accounts, threatening to flood these accounts with junk traffic and get the target account banned. Security expert Brian Krebs said he was contacted by a reader who said they had been targeted by such a malicious entity. “We’re about to flood your site with huge amount of direct bot-generated web traffic with 100% bounce ratio and thousands of IP’s in rotation — a nightmare for every AdSense publisher,” said a message received by the reader. “More also we’ll adjust our sophisticated bots to open, in endless cycle with different time duration, every AdSense banner which runs on your site.” The message said that while this will offer an initial spike in revenue, it will ultimately result in AdSense’s systems detecting fraudulent traffic and banning the account. “Next an ad serving limit will be placed on your publisher account and all the revenue will be refunded to advertisers,” said the reader. “This means that the main source of profit for your site will be temporarily suspended. It will take some time, usually a month, for the AdSense to lift your ad ban, but if this happens we will have all the resources needed to flood your site again with bad quality web traffic which will lead to second AdSense ban that could be permanent!” To avoid this attack, the victim was told to pay the attacker $5,000 in Bitcoin. When asked for comment, Google said the message seemed to be a classic threat of sabotage. “We hear a lot about the potential for sabotage, it’s extremely rare in practice, and we have built some safeguards in place to prevent sabotage from succeeding,” said Google. Google said it has a help centre which gives tips for AdSense publishers in such situations and recommended that publishers do not interact with malicious parties threatening such actions. “If there are concerns about invalid traffic, they should communicate that to us, and our Ad Traffic Quality team will monitor and evaluate their accounts as needed.”