Showmax recently launched special offers for prepaid packages at substantial discounts. The prepaid offers include a saving of up to R713 on an annual subscription to the streaming service. The packages available are: The MultiChoice-owned standalone streaming service’s biggest rival in South Africa is Netflix. The Showmax prepaid promotion is valid from 21 February to 31 March. Showmax may be cheaper, but when it comes to the quantity of content offered, Netflix comes out on top. According to JustWatch.com, Showmax’s library consists of 712 movies and 379 shows. Netflix in South Africa boasts significantly more content – 3,255 movie titles and 1,566 shows. It should be noted that when it comes to local content, Showmax is more competitive as it offers many of the locally-produced shows which are available on DStv channels like Mzansi Magic and kykNET. The number of shows and movies available on each streaming platform are shown below. Showmax offers two packages – Standard and Mobile-only. The Showmax Standard Plan normally costs R99 per month, while the mobile-only option is priced at R49 per month. With the Standard Plan, users are able to load up to five devices and view movies or shows simultaneously on two of these. The maximum resolution for the content is 720p. Netflix has three package tiers – Basic, Standard, and Premium. At R99 per month, users can opt for the Basic option, which will allow them to stream in standard definition (480p) on a single device. The closest comparable package to Showmax’s plans is Netflix’s Standard offering – which gives users access to full HD streaming on up to two devices at the same time. This subscription is priced at R139 per month. Premium allows four devices to be watching different shows simultaneously in resolutions of up to 3,840 x 2,160, depending on their device and the content they are watching. Although the normal monthly price of Showmax Standard is already R40 cheaper than Netflix Standard, things get even more interesting with Showmax’s prepaid special offers. If a user were to buy the annual prepaid offer for a standard Showmax package, it would work out to around R39 per month – R100 cheaper than Netflix Standard. Below is a table comparing the prices of Showmax’s special offer and a Netflix Standard subscription in South Africa over three months, six months, and a year.