Samsung announced it has started mass production of its 10nm-based 16GB LPDDR5 mobile DRAM. The new RAM debuted in Samsung’s flagship Galaxy S20 Ultra smartphone earlier this month. The company said the added capacity will provide premium mobile smartphones with additional capacity for improved 5G and AI features – such as graphically-advanced gaming and smart photography. Samsung added that in the second half of the year, it plans to mass-produce 16-gigabit LPDDR5 products based on its third-generation 10nm-class (1z) process technology. The 16GB LPDDR5 package is made up of eight 12-gigabit chips and four 8-gigabit chips. According to Samsung, the data transfer rate of the 16GB LPDDR5 RAM is 5,500 Mb/s, which is around 1.3 times faster than LPDDR4X’s 4,266 Mb/s. Additionally, when compared to an 8GB LPDDR4X module, the new RAM provides 20% better energy efficiency, Samsung claimed. While the latter might prove useful when it comes to smartphone battery life, it remains to be seen how these new speeds translate to real-life use. Although not officially revealed, tear-downs of Apple’s current top-of-the-range iPhone Pro Max shows that it only employs 4GB RAM. Despite this, Apple’s smartphones have been able to post comparable performance against their Android competitors. This is because Apple’s iOS platform and Android manage memory differently. While Android uses a method known as garbage collection, iOS employs reference point counting. Samsung recently unveiled another piece of powerful mobile hardware – The Exynos 990 processor. In South Africa, the 16GB LPDDR RAM comes paired with this processor in the new Galaxy S20 range. The Exynos 990 is a 7nm chip which boasts a pair of Exynos M5 and Cortex A76 cores, as well as four Cortex-A55 cores. It can be combined with the Exynos 5123 modem for 5G capability and is capable of supporting impressive hardware such as the 108MP front and rear camera on the S20 Ultra. However, 5G support is not available in the S20 smartphones on sale in South Africa. Samsung previously told MyBroadband that its launch of 5G devices in the country will depend on the roll-out of 5G technology by network operators.