Nvidia has officially launched its cloud game streaming service – GeForce Now – to the general public. The platform has been available to a limited number of users in beta since the beginning of 2018. During this time, 300,000 testers streamed over 70 million hours of gameplay, which allowed the company to fine-tune the platform before opening it up to more players. For optimal performance, GeForce Now employs Nvidia’s GPU architecture with GeForce Game Ready Drivers. “It’s the power to play PC games anywhere, on any device — even the billion devices that aren’t game ready. You’re upgrading to a state-of-the-art gaming rig by virtually adding a GeForce graphics card to your PC, Mac, Shield, or Android phone,” Nvidia said. GeForce Now is described as an open platform, which means it supports streaming of games bought from online stores like Steam, UPlay, Battle.net, and Epic. Nvidia said that this includes hundreds of titles from over 50 publishers. Additionally, the service offers instant access to more than 30 free-to-play games. “All these games are patched automatically in the cloud, so your library is always game ready,” Nvidia stated. Nvidia said it will continue to add to the library of instantly-accessible games, but noted there are more than a 1,000 games that can be streamed after a single-session install. The company asked players to notify Nvidia and game publishers of games that they want to play on GeForce Now. “Games get added to the service weekly based on member requests, game popularity and publishers’ input,” Nvidia said. Two types of memberships are available at launch – Free and Founders. The Free membership provides unlimited one-hour sessions with standard access to GeForce Now servers. The Founders option gives players a “no-wait, longer session-length premium experience” which features preferential access to servers and game sessions of up to six hours, as well as exclusive RTX content. This premium subscription will be free for the first three months, after which it will be priced at a discounted rate of $4.99 (R74) per month throughout 2020. GeForce Now is now available in 30 countries, but South Africa is not included.