Internet Solutions (IS) recently retrenched executives and senior managers as part of its transformation process. The company told MyBroadband that it regularly reviews its business to ensure that it is well-positioned to deliver the changing demands of the market. “Internet Solutions is entering a new era in its business, in which it will transform itself to drive the future of intelligent infrastructure,” IS said. “This requires new leadership models and skills and, as a result, the company entered a focused review of its executive and senior leadership level.” The retrenchments formed part of Internet Solutions’ strategy to flatten its management structure and create a more agile leadership team. The process, which ultimately resulted in 16 executives and senior management retrenchments, was concluded in December 2019. The latest retrenchments follow previous rounds of staff cuts at Internet Solutions in recent years. In September 2016 the company cut jobs which it said was needed to “streamline departments, roles, and responsibilities”. At the time, former Internet Solutions CEO Saki Missaikos said the company was undergoing a “rationalisation process across all business units”. “The restructure aims to deliver improved client experience, through more efficient and competitive operations,” said Missaikos at the time. In July 2018 Internet Solutions announced another round of staff cuts – this time to become “more agile and responsive”. “In years past, we introduced a decentralised, segmented business model. While we achieved some successes with this approach, we created process and service delivery complexity,” IS said. “Therefore, Internet Solutions is simplifying its business model to increase responsiveness with offerings that enable self-service, enhanced visibility and flexibility.” The company said it did a thorough review of the required skills mix to drive the next phase of its evolution, which resulted in the retrenchments. “Evolving our business is challenging, but we aim to navigate this process in a way which is best for our employees, partners and our business,” IS said in 2018.