Telkom has begun engaging with unions over its planned retrenchments, with the company planning to cut 3,000 employees in the first phase. The Information Communication Technology Union (ICTU) has condemned the company’s unliteral implementation of retrenchments, adding that the company has been slowly killing itself with its “hopeless” business strategy. “Telkom is cannibalizing itself thanks to its high pricing and poor fibre migration strategy,” ICTU media officer Thabang Mothelo told MyBroadband. Telkom has said that it does not recognise the Solidarity, ICTU, and NUMSA unions, as each of these organisations does not meet the 30% threshold for union recognition at the company. Mothelo argued that Telkom’s presentation to unions regarding the rationale behind retrenchments was grossly inadequate, considering the company’s failure to implement an effective business strategy. “Telkom management claims, without putting evidence of their argument, that technological advancement is the reason for customer and revenue decline,” Mothelo said. “This position was successfully challenged by the coalition of ICTU, Numsa and Solidarity to the point that specific examples were presented that Telkom has put in place measures to frustrate traditional voice customers, without giving them service and blocking them on the system when they report faulty service.” These blocked customers then migrate to mobile services or simply to other service providers, he said. “Another element which Telkom blamed is that competitors prices are flexible because regulators are encouraging competition to the disadvantage of Telkom.” He said that this is a lazy excuse, as Telkom had a head-start in the fibre race due to its existing ducts and infrastructure, but it still allowed competitors to roll out infrastructure ahead of it in many high-value areas. Mothelo added that Telkom’s mobile coverage has consistently been the worst in the country, but despite this, the company believes that it can compete with Vodacom and MTN. “Telkom management hope that their 1.1 million fixed-line customers will blindly migrate to Telkom Mobile when their ADSL is cut off, whilst also hoping to gain lost momentum in FTTH territory.” “Telkom believes it can compete with Vodacom and MTN, but these two companies have been leading the market for years in network reach, quality, and package pricing, and this is where Telkom is failing dismally.” The union has also condemned Sipho Maseko’s leadership, stating that under his tenure, Telkom will retrench around 15,000 employees by March 2020 while increasing executive structure by 37%. Mothelo said that there has been no benefit to previous retrenchments and there will be no advantage to the same type of mass retrenchments now, as Telkom will continue to cannibalize itself and fail to compete with other telcos in South Africa. Telkom did not immediately respond to queries sent by MyBroadband.