The Internet has rewritten the rules of business and Genesys says digital sales are at the centre of it all. One thing that remains unchanged in the world of sales and marketing, however, is the customer experience. According to Genesys, sales success lies in selling more than just a product or service. To win a customer over, you need to understand and shape your customer journeys and know when to engage with them in real time. Understanding when customers are headed down the wrong path or are lost on your website – and being able to engage with them in real time – results in a more successful website and happier customers. Thankfully, with artificial intelligence and machine learning, you can track each customer’s journey in real time. This enables you to proactively advise your sales teams on who to engage and when to engage them with a perfectly matching offer, increasing your conversion rate dramatically while decreasing your cost of sales. According to Gartner Research, companies that automate lead management see a 10% or greater increase in revenue in six to nine months. A digital, augmented workforce that uses bots ensures that part of your workforce is always working. Bots can analyse customer behaviors, along with the entire buying journey, and figure out what to offer to each customer. They also can determine how and when to maximise the chance of selling based on predicted outcomes. Genesys has created an eBook that details exactly how to leverage the power of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to increase conversions and drive more sales through your website. In this eBook you will learn key strategies that include how to increase conversions and revenue as well as decrease cart abandonment by leveraging new technologies. It will also teach you how to shift your sales and marketing strategy to accommodate the new digital marketplace. Download Genesys’ free eBook on how to drive more sales through your website here.  This article was published in partnership with Genesys.