With the broadest range of Wi-Fi 6 offerings in the industry, NETGEAR continues its commitment to advance Wi-Fi performance with the launch of a new product line – the Nighthawk Mesh Wi-Fi system. With the launch of Nighthawk Mesh Wi-Fi, the performance line will now join the fastest growing segment of Wi-Fi advanced solutions – Wi-Fi 6 mesh systems. “The award-winning NETGEAR Orbi Wi-Fi Mesh System has provided the consumer with an advanced Wi-Fi solution, which has become synonymous with ease-of-use and performance, whereas the Nighthawk line of performance routers has been reserved for those customers who prefer to have greater capability to customise the settings for personalisation and optimisation of their network,” said Tobie van Schalkwyk, product manager for NETGEAR switch solutions at Duxbury Networking. Designed for the tech enthusiast, the new Nighthawk Wi-Fi 6 Mesh System brings the experience of reliable and flexible Wi-Fi coverage with specialised features such as Dynamic QoS, which automatically prioritises both video streaming and gaming traffic. NETGEAR will continue to add features that establish Nighthawk Mesh Wi-Fi system as the most robust and adaptable system available. “Every member of a household now has a well-defined need for super-fast, reliable Wi-Fi – from gamers, to telecommuters and those who stream HD video to numerous screens within the home. NETGEAR has answered this call with the Nighthawk Mesh Wi-Fi System.” “The Nighthawk Mesh System comes with one or two high-powered satellites to provide whole home broadband Wi-Fi coverage. Dead zones are eliminated by easily adding satellites wherever needed or to scale up when moving to a larger home. Setup is completed in minutes with the free Nighthawk App on Apple iOS or Android OS and is also used to easily manage the network from your mobile device,” Van Schalkwyk pointed out. A Nighthawk Mesh Wi-Fi 6 router or a satellite supports dual-band Wi-Fi with up to 1.8Gbps using the latest Wi-Fi 6 and is the ideal companion for the latest iPhone or Samsung smart phones and the new Wi-Fi 6 capable gadgets introduced over the last several months. Legacy devices will also experience enhanced connectivity, as the Wi-Fi 6 backhaul for mesh systems improves utilisation of Wi-Fi channels with its use of faster speeds and better efficiencies over Wi-Fi 6. The router also comes equipped with 2 Gigabit Ethernet ports (one for the internet and the other for the LAN) while the satellite comes with 1 Gigabit Ethernet port. “This exciting new addition to the NETGEAR family of mesh Wi-Fi products will set a new bar for performance and capacity to meet the increasing bandwidth demands of our customers. NETGEAR already has the industry’s most complete Wi-Fi 6 router portfolio and Duxbury is now pleased to offer the same for Wi-Fi 6 mesh solutions,” said Van Schalkwyk. For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, store.duxbury.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Duxbury Networking.