Streaming movies and TV shows in South Africa is not only possible for customers with expensive fibre connectivity. Although the large amounts of data required to stream video content means the ideal setup for effortless streaming is an uncapped fibre package, most households in South Africa do not yet have access to this service. Several mobile operators and ISPs offer affordably-priced mobile deals that boast sufficient data for streaming plenty of hours of entertainment. Among the most notable deals, Showmax has partnered with Vodacom for a mobile-only offer that costs only R99 per month. With this service, users are able to watch their favourite movies and shows on their smartphone or tablet. The package includes a Showmax mobile subscription and 2GB Vodacom data for streaming up to 10 hours of content. For those who want to spend more hours streaming on their TV or computer, a significantly higher data cap will be required. ISPs like Afrihost and Axxess offer a range of data-loaded packages that run on Telkom and MTN’s networks. These month-to-month deals include anytime data with an equivalent allocation of night-time data. The offers can be taken out with a device or SIM-only. Telkom’s Night Time data is available between midnight and 07:00. MTN’s Night Express runs from midnight to 05:00. Note that in order to use MTN’s fixed-LTE product, an MTN-approved router is required. These MTN deals are also available from Supersonic. If you are willing to be tied into a contract for 24 months, mobile operators feature a number of packages that offer enough data to keep you streaming for hours on end. Vodacom offers a Huawei B218H LTE Router on an 80GB Data Contract at R339 per month. This includes 50GB of anytime data and 30GB of Night Owl data, which is valid between midnight and 05:00. Below are several of the best-priced SIM-only contract options from Telkom and MTN. The total data includes the same amount of anytime and night time data. Mobile operators offer a number of prepaid data deals with plenty of data for streaming. Telkom boasts the best rates for prepaid data bundles, as indicated below. These bundles are also divided equally between anytime and night time-only data. Both Vodacom and Telkom offer monthly bundles that can only be used for video streaming on services like Netflix, Showmax and DStv Now.  Vodacom URL  Telkom LIT Mobile operators often include allocations of streaming-only data with their packages. Be sure to check the exact terms and inclusions for the range of products on offer from various mobile operators. When streaming video services on a capped package, it is important to manage your usage by taking into account which devices you are using and adjusting the quality settings for the services on the browser or app. On Showmax, users have the option to enable the “bandwidth capping” feature, which reduces data consumption by automatically adjusting video quality. In general, light streaming users can choose data bundles which provide between 20GB and 40GB anytime streaming data. Medium users should rather opt for between 60GB and 100GB anytime allocations, while heavy use requires more than 100GB of anytime data. If you prefer not to worry about your data consumption, an uncapped package would be the best option. For an estimation of your average data usage, you can use Showmax’s bandwidth calculator. Showmax and DStv Now offer loads of premium shows and movies. A Standard Showmax subscription is priced at R99 per month, while a mobile subscription will cost you R49 per month. Showmax recently launched a prepaid special offer for 3-month, 6-month or annual subscriptions, for select customers. The packages available are: To see if you are eligible for this offer, click here. This article was published in partnership with Showmax. Headline Showmax