DStv is often seen as a luxury which can be cut when times are tough, but financial planning expert David Kop warned that this decision can cost some people more than what they save. Kop told Finweek that he recently had a consultation with a client in financial distress and advised him to cut DStv to free up some money. “I could see my client immediately became disconnected, so I probed deeper,” said Kop. “It turns out he was a massive sports fan and had to ensure that he watched his team playing live.” This means that if he does not have DStv at home, he has to go to a venue like a restaurant or pub to watch the game. With expensive food and drinks associated with going to a venue to watch a game, it can easily cost him more each month than his DStv subscription. “Although I saw DStv as a luxury, to him it was his essential entertainment and actually saved him money,” Kop said. While Netflix, ShowMax, and other streaming services offer an affordable alternative to DStv, the pay-TV service continues to grow. The biggest reason for this growth is sport. SuperSport offers DStv subscribers excellent live coverage of the most prominent sporting events. To sports fans, DStv is not seen as a luxury which can be cancelled during hard times, but rather as a necessity to watch their favourite team play live. Supersport has exclusive broadcasting rights for many popular sporting events, including Super Rugby, the Premier League, and the UEFA Champions League. If you want to watch all these matches live from your home, you only have one legal choice – subscribe to DStv. This makes DStv, and DStv Premium specifically, a necessary monthly expensive for sport-loving South Africans. So popular is the SuperSport offering that MultiChoice has the freedom to increase DStv prices year after year. 2020 is no exception, and from April most DStv clients will start to pay more for their monthly subscription. MultiChoice’s latest financial results showed that the total number of DStv subscribers in South Africa increased from 7.6 million to 8.2 million over the last year. There is, however, some bad news for the pay-TV provider. MultiChoice lost 3% of its DStv Premium subscribers over the last year. The average revenue per user also declined from R308 to R292 due to the higher percentage of DStv subscribers choosing cheaper packages. DStv Premium now accounts for 19% of all DStv subscribers, down from 21% over the same period last year. This shows that while sport keeps many DStv Premium subscribers on board, others are migrating to Netflix or cheaper DStv packages to save money.