One of the fastest-growing fibre network operators in South Africa is Frogfoot, which currently passes over 140,000 homes with fibre. The company shows no signs of slowing down its fibre rollout, and MyBroadband spoke to Frogfoot head of sales Shane Chorley to learn about the company’s plans for 2020. Frogfoot plans to roll out fibre to a number of new locations, focusing on both urban and rural areas. When asked which areas Frogfoot would roll out fibre to in 2020, Chorley said that the company would focus on everywhere from both big cities where they already had coverage to smaller towns in the Eastern Cape. The list of areas which Frogfoot said it would focus on this year include: The company also recently announced that its fibre network in Franschhoek would go live in the first quarter of 2020. “This area has not been covered up until this point, and there are many wine farms, residential estates, bed and breakfast accommodation, companies, and homes that stand to benefit tremendously from this new development,” Chorley said. The FNO also recently acquired the network and customer base of Blitz Fibre, which builds primarily in multi-dwelling residential and business complexes and has a presence in Gauteng, Eastern Cape, and KwaZulu-Natal. Chorley told MyBroadband that Frogfoot had seen great adoption in many areas, and that fibre connectivity is becoming more of an expectation among South African residents and office workers. “We are experiencing high usage in many of our smaller town builds, many small businesses are connecting and it is becoming an expectation in many areas that fibre is available,” he said. “As we build, we have the opportunity to educate the communities on fibre and what this really can enable.” He added that Frogfoot especially connects with high data-usage customers, such as gamers, students studying at home, and professionals with home offices. “We are connecting with gamers, people working from home and students who are studying at home with high usage demands,” he said.