Airports Company South Africa (ACSA) has announced that three more airports will open for business travel from Tuesday 21 July 2020. ACSA spokesperson Senzeni Ndebele said that reconnecting regional centres through air links is an essential element of reigniting local economies. Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula announced that airports serving East London, George, and Kimberley had met the requirements of the SA Civil Aviation Authority and would be able to open for business travel from 21 July. ACSA said suitable health screening resources had been allocated by the provincial governments of Eastern Cape, Western Cape and Northern Cape. “These resources are an essential required element of the health protocols and procedures at airports,” Ndebele said. “Other airports that opened earlier already had Port Health resources in place by virtue of their international status.” “We are therefore most appreciative of the efforts of the three provincial governments in identifying and allocating qualified people who can perform the screening role which is a critical aspect of ensuring that air travel is safe,” he said. “The support of the provincial governments is all the more appreciated at a time such as this when healthcare resources across the country are stretched.” All protocols and processes applied when other airports reopened from the beginning of June will also be in place at the airports serving East London, George, and Kimberley. Ndebele advised business travellers to check with airlines for available flights, however. “Our experience of the past several weeks is that airlines will not necessarily commence with flights on the first day that airports are officially open again,” Ndebele said. “Business passengers needing to travel to and from these centres should monitor the airline web sites for flight availability.” She also advised passengers to give themselves enough time to get through the required protocols to adapt to new arrangements in terms of parking and terminal access points. The airport protocols and procedures are outlined below. Arriving at the airport Airport entrances and access control Check-in process Security checkpoint process Boarding the aircraft Disembarking from an aircraft