South African airline Safair explained to MyBroadband what rules customers will have to follow to curb the spread of COVID-19 when taking a domestic flight. It said the national lockdown has had a huge impact on its revenue. “There was an extended period during which we simply had no revenue, but obviously still had significant overheads to cover,” Safair told MyBroadband. “While our teams have had to make significant sacrifices during this period, it’s great to be back in the air again,” said Safair. It noted that its operations are still “very thin” as demand for flights is not great, and there are limitations on the reasons for which one may travel. Despite this, it said its business is slowly improving. Safair said it has implemented a number of measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 on its planes. These are in line with regulations, although it said some of the measures it is taking also go beyond what is required by the government. Safair provided the following checklist of measures it has taken to prepare its planes for passengers: Safair also provided more information on some of these measures. Safair said it is the only airline in South Africa that is offering customers the choice to leave the middle seat open between a window and an aisle seat. While the Ministry of Transport has placed no restrictions that require this, and research has not shown this to be a particularly effective prevention technique. However, Safair still allows passengers the option to do this as they “may prefer the peace of mind that comes with ensuring that the middle seat is left open anyway”. This is available at a R750 fee, which both passengers must pay. Safair said the HEPA filters it uses were mentioned by Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula and are highly effective at refreshing cabin air. This includes the following benefits: Safair said that during boarding, passengers are boarded in smaller groups. These passengers are asked to maintain social distancing during this process. When passengers disembark, they are all expected to remain seated until their group is called for disembarking. Aisle seat passengers are the first group who will be allowed to disembark, followed by middle seats, and finally those with window seats. Families who are travelling together are allowed to disembark together, however.