Octotel’s decision to change their speeds and prices will affect all ISPs, who will in-turn have to change their package prices. Traditionally, download speeds are much faster than upload speeds. This is called an asymmetric internet structure. Octotel have opted to add more value to their offerings by adopting a symmetrical internet structure (except with their 1Gbps line), which in layman’s terms means that their lines will have the same upload and download speeds. Symmetrical speed structures provide the end-user with a more balanced and powerful package. They also provide customers with far better value for their money. Here are some more benefits you can expect from RSAWEB & Octotel’s new symmetrical packages: Learn more about how RSAWEB’s new symmetrical packages, created in response to Octotel’s new product and pricing structure, can add more value to your online experience These are the changes happening to Octotel’s speeds: RSAWEB told us that, “It is important to remember that these changes will affect all Octotel customers regardless of what ISP they are partnered with. With this said, we are doing our best to limit how this price increase will affect our customers, which is why we have provided them with a discount on the initial price that Octotel added on to each package.” Here’s how RSAWEB are doing their best to limit how this price increase will affect their customers: Get more bang for your buck with RSAWEB’s new symmetrical fibre packages Even with the slight rise in prices that they are forced to implement across their Octotel Fibre packages, RSAWEB still provide one of the most value-for-money connectivity services on the market. In the table below, you can see RSAWEB’s new Octotel prices, highlighted in grey, compared to the current prices of their major competitors on lower speeds. This proves that RSAWEB is providing much better value for money – higher speeds, at a lower price. Click here to sign up for one of RSAWEB’s fast and affordable fibre packages This article was published in partnership with RSAWEB.