Eskom has announced it will continue to implement stage 2 load-shedding on Monday 13 July. The utility said despite its best efforts to return additional generation units to service after the breakdowns that occurred during the week, it had not made sufficient progress to suspend load-shedding. “Implementing load-shedding tomorrow is also necessary in order to replenish the emergency generation reserves to better prepare for the week,” Eskom added. “Eskom wishes to assure the public that implementing load-shedding is the last resort, in order to protect the national grid,” the company said. Stage 2 load-shedding will be suspended at 22:00 on Sunday and then resume at 09:00 on Monday. This was in order to limit the impact of the power cuts on the morning’s peak traffic, Eskom noted. The implementation will then continue until 22:00 in the evening. Following the return to service of generation units at several power plants on Friday and Saturday, Eskom’s teams successfully returned one more unit at the Kriel power station on Sunday. This has added a further 475MW to the grid, in addition to the 2,350MW and 1,565MW regained on Friday and Saturday, respectively. However, generation units at Tutuka and Kriel remained down, contributing to the supply constraints. Eskom reiterated that it will continue to experience electricity supply constraints during the coming week. Monday will be the fourth day of load-shedding since the start of South Africa’s COVID-19 lockdown. Due to a lack of demand for electricity from businesses, Eskom was able to continue supplying electricity without implementing rotational power cuts during the initial stages of the lockdown. Last month, Eskom told South Africans they can expect only three days of stage 1 load-shedding this winter, which should occur late in July. Two weeks into July, however, and Eskom has already implemented three days of stage 2 load-shedding due to unplanned breakdowns. On Friday 10 July, Eskom announced that load-shedding was necessary due to an increase in plant breakdowns exceeding 3,000MW of capacity. This was followed by two more days of load-shedding over the weekend. #POWERALERT 1 Stage 2 loadshedding to continue until 22:00, then resume at 09:00 tomorrow pic.twitter.com/5TrhOWo7bP — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) July 12, 2020 