President Cyril Ramaphosa recently announced stricter rules to fight the rapid spread of COVID-19 in South Africa. The new rules include stricter measures to improve compliance with wearing cloth masks and banning the sale of alcohol. He has also brought back a curfew, where every person is confined to their place of residence from 21:00 to 04:00 daily. The new alert level 3 lockdown regulations have also relaxed some of the current restrictions around public transport and commercial activities. Taxis and buses can now increase their capacity to 100% for short local trips, while the 70% occupancy restriction still holds for trips of over 200km. All auctions will now be permitted subject to protocols similar to those that currently apply to agricultural auctions. Parks will now be open for exercise and the requirement to wear a mask when doing “vigorous exercise” has been lifted. Many level 3 lockdown restrictions remain in place. You still cannot visit family or friends, cigarette sales remain banned, and leisure travel is not allowed. Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said the alcohol ban is needed to combat the accelerating spread of the virus. She explained that the sale of alcohol resulted in people letting their guard down and through irresponsible actions spread the virus. Dlamini-Zuma said when people get drunk, they do not continue to wear their masks or observe social distancing, resulting in a higher risk of the virus spreading. “We have seen it in many instances. The way alcohol brings people together, it discourages people from wearing masks, social distancing, and sanitising,” Dlamini-Zuma said. She added that alcohol use increases violent behaviour which in turn results in injuries and taking up hospital beds which should be used to treat COVID-19 patients. “When people have taken liquor, they get drunk – some become violent, start fighting, killing each other, or even at home they become violent,” she said. With the latest alert level 3 regulatory changes, it raises the question of what is now allowed and what is not. The table below provides an overview of the current level 3 lockdown rules.