Samsung’s upcoming premium smartphone, the Galaxy Note 20, could be cheaper than its predecessor, according to a report by Naver. According to industry sources who spoke to the publication, the Galaxy Note 20 may be priced at $999 in South Korea. The more expensive Galaxy Note 20 Ultra will reportedly be priced at $1,040. This means that the standard version of the new smartphone could be around $50 cheaper than its predecessor. The price of Samsung’s upcoming Galaxy Note device may differ in markets outside of South Korea, however, with the previous-generation smartphone being available for around $100 cheaper in the United States than South Korea. Samsung’s upcoming Galaxy Note 20 smartphones have been subject to multiple leaks, giving potential buyers a good idea of what to expect from the devices when they launch later this year. Information gleaned from leaked renders of the Galaxy Note 20 and Note 20+ show that the devices will sport similar display sizes to the Galaxy S20+ and S20 Ultra, respectively. The Note 20 will reportedly measure 161.8 x 75.3 x 8.5 mm, making it slightly thicker than the Note 10 and Note 10+, while the Note 20+ will be longer and wider than the standard model but slightly thinner, with dimensions of 165 x 77.2 x 7.6 mm. The S-Pen holder has also been moved to the left on both smartphones, while the bottom speaker and USB-C port remain in the same place. Samsung’s upcoming Galaxy S20 ultra was recently leaked on the company’s website, showing a high-end design in a new colour named “Mystic Bronze”. The leaked image also shows off a rear camera system with three large camera sensors alongside an LED flash and a small black strip which may include a depth sensor. This leak contradicts a previous statement from Display Supply Chain Consultants CEO Ross Young, who said Samsung will not launch an Ultra model. According to Young, Samsung will instead unveil the Galaxy Fold 2 alongside the Note 20 and Note 20+ smartphones, the latter of which will be the first Samsung smartphone with a 120Hz panel.