Microsoft has announced it will discontinue production of its Xbox One X and Xbox One S Digital Edition consoles. In an emailed statement sent to The Verge, a Microsoft spokesperson said the company was focusing its attention on the launch of its next-generation console, the Xbox Series X. “As we ramp into the future with Xbox Series X, we’re taking the natural step of stopping production on Xbox One X and Xbox One S All-Digital Edition,” Microsoft stated. This means that while you might still be able to buy one of these consoles at a retailer, stock will likely become limited as no new units will be forthcoming from factories. Microsoft confirmed that the standard Xbox One S will still be manufactured and sold globally, however. The Xbox Series X is expected to launch in the 2020 holiday season, in either November or December. Microsoft has claimed the console will deliver four-times the processing power of the Xbox One X, and be capable of delivering 4K graphics at up to 120fps. Its specifications include a custom eight-core AMD Zen 2 processor, 12 TFLOPS AMD RDNA 2 GPU, 16GB GDDR6 RAM, and a 1TB NVMe SSD. Microsoft is also expected to launch another console – codenamed Project Lockhart – in August 2020. Reportedly called the Xbox Series S, it is expected to be a cheaper variant of the Series X, with no physical disc drive and lower-performance components. According to current reports, it will offer 4TFLOPs of processing power and a maximum of 7.5GB RAM. This likely means that the Series S console will only offer 1080p graphics. While the price of the Xbox Series X is yet to be confirmed, analyst Michael Pachter previously claimed Microsoft is in a good position to undercut the launch price of Sony’s upcoming console – the PlayStation 5 – by $100. Both consoles are expected to be priced between $400 and $500. Sony has definitively dominated the current generation console war, with the PlayStation 4 reportedly outselling the Xbox One by a factor of more than 2:1. Microsoft has stopped reporting official sales figures for the Xbox One, but industry experts estimate the company had sold less than 50 million units by the end of June 2020. This is far short of the confirmed 110 million PS4 units shipped by Sony as of 31 March 2020, as well as the 84 million units Microsoft sold with its previous-generation Xbox 360.