Lawyers for Huawei CFO Meng Wanzhou have applied to the Canadian court to seek a stay in her extradition to the United States, reports Reuters. These applications are partially based on Meng’s lawyer claiming that the integrity of the judicial process was destroyed by the US as it was intending to use Meng “as a bargaining chip in a trade dispute”. Trump previously told Reuters that “if I think it’s good for what will be certainly the largest trade deal ever made – which is a very important thing – what’s good for national security, I would certainly intervene if I thought it was necessary”. Meng’s lawyers claim that these comments were “offensive and ominous” and added that Trump’s history of interference in other high-profile prosecutions – including that of former friend and associate Roger Stone – makes the statement “all the more intimidating”. The lawyers also claim that Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also politicised the situation by linking Meng’s release to the release of two Canadian businesspeople by China. Trudeau also said in December 2019 that he had asked Trump not to confirm a trade deal with China until the situation regarding Meng and the two Canadians had been resolved. “The clear implication of these comments is that the Prime Minister has communicated to the [United States] that he supports its use of [Ms. Meng’s] case as a bargaining chip in trade negotiations,” said Meng’s lawyers. While the situation with Huawei has arguably been politicised in other regions, the company has urged Africa to make their own decisions regarding the company. “Huawei is both a veteran and a pioneer in Africa’s ICT infrastructure,” said Huawei South African Region director of media affairs Edison Xie. He highlighted that Huawei’s contribution to the continent has resulted in it achieving many “firsts,” including: “During the past two decades, we have built hundreds of thousands of 3G/4G wireless sites in Africa, covering over 900 million Africa population from the coast of the Mediterranean to Cape Town,” said Xie. “In terms of 5G, Huawei is probably the most enthusiastic advocate and practitioner in introducing the latest 5G technologies to the African market.” Xie also highlighted the ways Huawei has used its ICT expertise to benefit African communities – including the training of over 80,000 engineers, various projects which have encouraged and enabled African youths, and the promotion of ICT literacy among the public – including a recent 5G workshop for the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services. Xie also highlighted that Huawei has played a big part in the fight against COVID-19 on the continent, including the resolution of network congestion to ensure business, education, production, and medical care could continue unhindered.