Eskom has announced it will continue to implement stage 2 load-shedding on Tuesday 14 July. Stage 2 load-shedding will be suspended at 22:00 on Monday and then resume at 09:00 on Tuesday. The utility said despite its best efforts to return additional generation units to service after the breakdowns that occurred during the week, it had not made sufficient progress to suspend load-shedding. “This afternoon, Unit 2 of the Koeberg power station, which had been on cold reserve since April 2020, was successfully synchronised into the grid to help relieve the pressure on the generation system,” Eskom said. “A generation unit each at the Majuba and Lethabo power stations have also returned to service this afternoon,” the company said. “This, however, is still not sufficient to enable Eskom to suspend load-shedding.” Eskom assured the public that implementing load-shedding is a last resort to protect the national power grid. “The loss added to breakdowns at the Kriel and the Medupi power stations because of difficulties experienced during startup,” Eskom said. “Eskom teams are working around the clock to return as many generation units as possible.” The power utility added that the colder weather has worsened the situation, with demand rising significantly. “We therefore urge the public to continue assisting us in managing consumption in order to reduce the impact of supply constraints,” Eskom said. It added that it would communicate should there be any significant changes to the power supply situation. #POWERALERT 1 Stage 2 loadshedding to continue until 22:00, then resume at 09:00 tomorrow pic.twitter.com/uONEOjUssK — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) July 13, 2020  Eskom’s return to load-shedding and its requests that South Africans reduce power consumptions have been slated. “This is when it hits home that South Africa is going backwards at a rapid pace,” said Sygnia CEO Magda Wierzycka. “I am so tired of excuses, lack of coherent growth strategies, corrupt system, lack of inclusion of people who want to help,” she said. Wierzycka added that load-shedding has a direct impact on people’s ability to work from home. “If it continues during this tough period businesses will have no choice but to recall staff back to the office where there are generators,” she said.