Regulations set out by the South African government last month have allowed Gallagher Convention Centre to reopen its doors for conferences of up to 50 people. Gallagher Convention Centre therefore looks forward to welcoming you back to its premises and is committed to ensuring your conference runs smoothly – and with the health and safety of your delegates a top priority. As part of its reopening, Gallagher is offering great packages that cater to your conference needs. This package gives access to both a conference venue and a lunch venue. Upon arrival, attendees will be offered tea, coffee, juice, and refreshments – and later in the morning, attendees will again be offered a selection of drinks and refreshments. Lunch meal options comprise a 2-course sit down meal or a finger fork option, while in the afternoon, tea and coffee will be available to attendees. Attendees also have access to secure parking. This package includes a conference venue, as well as either a breakfast or lunch venue. Upon arrival, attendees will be offered tea, coffee, juice, and refreshments. This package includes mid-morning refreshments, too. Organisers are offered the option of breakfast or lunch menu. For lunch they offer a 2-course sit-down lunch menu, or a finger fork option. A no-meal version of this package is also available for R350 per person. A variety of additional meal items are available to be added separately. Gallagher Convention Centre has taken extensive steps to ensure that conferences taking place on its premises abide by safety regulations and best practices. These measures include the following: Gallagher Convention Centre has its own COVID-19 preparedness plan and compliance officer to ensure that the centre is expertly prepared to host your conference. Gallagher Convention Centre is excited to welcome you back to its conference facilities. If you are looking to host a conference that runs smoothly while keeping your delegates safe, Gallagher Convention Centre is the obvious answer. Click here to book a conference today. This article was published in partnership with Gallagher.