Media24 has announced big changes to its magazine and newspaper operations which are likely to result in big job cuts. Media24 CEO Ishmet Davidson said during the COVID-19 pandemic they have focused on two main priorities – the health and safety of their people and business continuity. He said Media24 tried to protect employment for as long as possible, but the pandemic has accelerated the pre-existing and long-term structural decline in print media. “The pandemic has resulted in a devastating impact on our own already fragile print media operations with significant declines in both circulation and advertising since April,” said Davidson. “For many of our print titles, the benefits of prior interventions to offset the structural declines and keep them on the shelf no longer exist and they’ve run out of options in this regard.” The planned interventions by Media24 include: The planned interventions are expected to affect around 510 staff members, with a proposed closure of 660 positions, out of a total staff complement of 2,971. This announcement by Media24 follows announcements by Associated Media Publishing and Caxton that they are closing their magazine publishing businesses. Associated Media Publishing, which published Cosmopolitan, House & Leisure, Good Housekeeping, and Women on Wheels, shut its doors on 1 May. Associated Media Publishing (AMP) was one of South Africa’s leading independent media houses and was well known as a publisher of women’s magazines. AMP CEO Julia Raphaely said they made every effort to continue operating, but the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic killed the company. The major factors which negatively impacted the company were: Raphaely said these challenges have made it impossible to continue trading, even after investing large amounts of personal money into the business. Caxton also announced it was withdrawing from magazine publishing and associated businesses in South Africa. This decision, Caxton said, was needed because of the steady decline in advertising spend in the magazine media sector. Caxton Magazines published 12 prominent magazines – Bona, Country Life, Essentials, Food & Home, Garden & Home, People, Rooi Rose, Vrouekeur, Woman & Home, and Your Family. Caxton GM Anton Botes said they have seen a steady decline in circulation over the last 7-8 years. They expected Caxton Magazines to survive for another 3-4 years, but the COVID-19 lockdown condensed the decline into a 2-month period.