Altron Nexus and Telviva have formed a partnership to extend the largest Cloud PBX and free call community in South Africa into the Altron Nexus customer base, under the Adconnect division. The Telviva solution is a flexible unified communications tool that offers PBX capabilities, visual communication and messaging services. The managed service can be consumed at the office, home or on the move via any screen or phone with the requisite capability. According to Ehimare Aire, Chief Operating Officer of Altron Nexus; “This will enable Altron Nexus to leverage the skills base of Telviva to improve the quality of conversations for customers and to deliver more contextual communication. Importantly, the service empowers our businesses to embark on a digital journey, using the very best available cloud solutions.” The solution also harnesses Contact Management, using businesses’ history of prior engagements to tailor communications solutions. “While you can’t predict the future, you can certainly help shape it,” adds Aire. “The partnership also strengthens our capabilities to service other cloud solutions such as Microsoft Teams direct routing with a quality voice termination partner.” David Meintjes, CEO of Telviva, is delighted about the partnership as it blends the pioneering spirit and agility in the Telviva team with the world class execution capabilities of Altron Nexus, for the benefit of the Altron Nexus customers. “The landscape of business communications has permanently changed and companies now need a cloud communication solution to transmit voice, text and video between businesses and their customers – which can be consumed from anywhere, and at any time,” says Meintjes. Telviva is a Level 3 BBBEE company, the market leader in end to end cloud communication systems for business, enabling better quality conversations through more context, speed and accuracy. Altron Nexus is a level 1 BBBEE, ISO 9001 accredited company, providing a variety of converged telecommunication services ranging from the distribution of professional two way radio products and systems across sub-Saharan Africa through Alcom Radio Distributors, operating the largest trunked radio network in South Africa through Fleetcall and providing end-to-end ICT system integration services through Alcom Matomo. This article was published in partnership with Telviva.