The lockdown regulations were relaxed today after South Africa moved from level 5 to level 4 on the new COVID-19 alert system. One of the biggest changes is that restaurants and fast food outlets are now allowed to operate. There are, however, restrictions. Only deliveries are allowed, and operating hours are restricted to 09:00 to 19:00. The new regulations for alert level 4 highlight that no sit-down dining or collection of food is allowed at restaurants. These restrictions mean food delivery services like Mr D Food and Uber Eats will be in high demand. Mr D Food returned to full operation today. “Restaurants will be able to return to Mr D Food along with safe, contactless delivery and financial support,” it said. Many restaurants told MyBroadband they are excited to start operating again and are now open for business. Danielle Wallace, marketing manager at Hudson’s Burger Joint, said they have opened all seven branches across Johannesburg, Pretoria, and Cape Town. “We have developed a new and limited menu geared specifically for deliveries. Our customers can find us on Uber Eats, Mr D, and OrderIn,” she said. Del Forno’s Lizelle Wolhuter said they have opened their restaurants for delivery and offer a variety of pizza and pasta, steaks, and selected chef meals. “Customers will also be able to order directly off our app, and will receive 10% off their first order with us,” Wolhuter said. Doppio Zero also opened for deliveries via various food delivery partners and its own options. Other restaurants which are now offering food to clients include Pizza Hut, Pizza Perfect, Andiccio24, and Anat. Not all restaurants have been able to open, however. Ocean Basket executive Jaime de Abreu told MyBroadband they will not open their restaurants immediately as it is would be a high-risk move. He added that the national curfew which begins at 20:00 each evening means they would need to shut down at 18:00 to clean and allow staff to return home on time. De Abreu explained that 18:00 to 20:00 is the highest trading period for Ocean Basket, which makes shutting down at 18:00 a problem. Col’Cacchio told MyBroadband that as its restaurants are primarily sit-down, it is not viable for all of its outlets to open. Nando’s will also not open their restaurants to the public. “Being restricted by the government to delivery only, in hours limited by a curfew, means they will have to remain closed,” the company said. The table below provides an overview of the restaurants which are now open for deliveries. Here is a summary of what prominent restaurants said about opening during lockdown and offering deliveries to clients.