RSAWEB has fast established itself as the market leader in the Fibre To The Home category in South Africa. RSAWEB continues to improve its position in the MyBroadband Speed Test customer ratings as the company grows from strength to strength. In MyBroadband’s Q1 2020 ISP report, RSAWEB was positioned as one of the top ISPs in South Africa based on customer satisfaction. It has also boasted the fastest average download speeds since the start of lockdown – proof of which can be found in MyBroadband’s featured article here. This value is further reinforced by the fact that RSAWEB has some of the best fibre prices in the country. In our competitor survey, we found that RSAWEB has the best value-for-money offering with a 20/10 Mbps package for only R795 per month. What’s more, installation is FREE for all Openserve packages. If you sign up with RSAWEB’s #LockdownDoubleUp campaign today, you will also get an incredible 1 month free AND double the speed on 10, 20 and 40 Mbps Openserve packages. This is only available in live Openserve areas and T’s and C’s apply. Additionally, Openserve recently changed its package and pricing structure on its network. As a result, RSAWEB is set to offer a premium package on the Openserve network to ensure that customers can choose to receive the ultimate Internet experience – complete with high-priority bandwidth. Starting with their 10/10 Mbps package at just R675 per month, RSAWEB continues to impress by beating their competitors’ prices for 6 packages on the Octotel network. These packages extend up to a 1000/100 Mbps product for only R1,395 per month. As an added bonus, there are no installation or connection fees. Click here to sign up for RSAWEB fibre. On the Vumatel network, RSAWEB has the best prices across 8 different packages, offering a package suitable for anyone’s budget. Click here to sign up for RSAWEB fibre. In addition to its great pricing and incredible customer service, RSAWEB offers a range of value-adds: If you’re planning on signing up for fibre, or if you’re unhappy with your current ISP, consider switching to RSAWEB. Learn more about RSAWEB fibre here. This article was published in partnership with RSAWEB.