Genew India Specializes in the Maintenance Service of Telecom Networks. Based in the North Indian state of Haryana, Genew India is a telecommunications company established in 2018 in partnership with Shenzhen Genew Technologies. Providing several business services, Genew India offers dust-free environments to carry out tests for the wireless modules of mobile phones. Among its clients are leading mobile phone vendors, including Vivo and OPPO. Building a new mobile phone production line with full wi-fi coverage Genew India required a new production line for a leading mobile phone vendor. It was crucial for the new installation to have full Wi-Fi coverage, and in particular a high-speed seamless Wi-Fi network was necessary to provide the high bandwidth and high-density concurrent device access that the workshop required. AirEngine Wi-Fi 6 powers an all-wireless mobile phone production line Huawei installed a tailor-made AirEngine Wi-Fi 6 solution to serve Genew India’s all-wireless mobile phone production line. With full Wi-Fi coverage throughout the workshop are, wireless modules of mobile phones from different clients could be tested accurately and efficiently. Wireless Access Points: AP7060DN and AP4050DN With a variety of wireless Access Points (APs) available — all providing network coverage with high bandwidth service and better mobile cloud access service — Huawei helps organizations build more advanced optimal wireless networks. AP7060DN is the next-generation Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax) AP in Huawei’s line-up. With a data rate of up to 5.95 Gbit/s, this AP is able to fully meet the quality requirements of high-bandwidth services — such as HD video streaming — enabling users to enjoy high-quality wireless services. Additionally, AP7060DN delivers mobile cloud access services, providing the coverage, access density, and operating stability that organizations and users require. CloudEngine Switches: S5720 LI POE and S7703 A next-generation energy-saving gigabit Ethernet switch, Huawei’s S5720-LI provides flexible GE access ports and 10 GE uplink ports, also supporting intelligent Stack (iStack), flexible Ethernet networking, and diversified security control. The S7700 series is comprised of high-end smart routing switches featuring advanced scalability and reliability, designed for next-generation enterprise networks. They can function either as aggregation or core nodes on a campus network, or be installed in a data center to provide integrated wireless access. Agile Controller Huawei’s Agile Controller is the company’ss latest user- and application-based network resource auto-control system. Following the centralized control principle of Software-Defined Networking (SDN), Agile Controller dynamically schedules network and security resources across an entire campus network. Installing Huawei’s Wi-Fi 6 technology substantially boosted Genew India’s capability to test its client’s mobile phones. With full Wi-Fi coverage, high bandwidth, and the capacity to support high-density concurrent device access, mobile phone tests for leading mobile phone vendors became smoother and more efficient. Data transmission is boosted through the use of eight antennas in a single radio, with up to 3.5 Gbit/s of bandwidth. In addition, high-concurrency ensures accelerated access, authentication, and performance testing of mobile phone wireless modules for the company, significantly improving the overall efficiency of Genew’s mobile phone production. Click here for more information about Huawei Wi-Fi 6 products and solutions. This article was published in partnership with HUAWEI.