The current Covid-19 pandemic has cast a lot of panic and uncertainty, leaving many people with questions about their financial future and the resultant impact of the pandemic going forward. Those with long-term insurance cover, probably want clarity on what the impact is of this pandemic on their long-term insurance cover in these times. Johan Minnie, Managing Executive for Customer & Adviser Experience at Liberty says, “Now more than ever, consumers should contact their financial advisers to navigate the terminology and understanding of the kind of cover they have in place”. From a Liberty perspective, Minnie answers some questions that are probably on your mind regarding your insurance cover with Liberty. If a client dies from COVID-19, death benefits will be payable. The normal terms and conditions of the policyholder’s policy will still apply. This is where Income Protection becomes very important. Income protection has become a vital benefit for policyholders who have the ability to earn an income, as this is their greatest asset. It is important for policyholder’s to know that  if he/she is unable to work due to medically validated reasons, such as the COVID-19 virus, for a period (which exceeds the waiting period specified in the policy), the income protection benefits will be paid. A normal claims process will be followed and the claim will be assessed according to the terms and conditions of the policy. Medical conditions that are claimed against the policy will be considered in line with policy definitions and normal claims practices. To date, the COVID-19 virus as far as we can confirm does not seem to have any complications that could cause long-term disability. Cases have shown no clear permanent lung damage after the infection has cleared. All permanent disability claims will be assessed based on the qualifying criteria covered under the policy and the permanent impact the virus has on your health and your ability to do your job. The COVID-19 virus currently doesn’t fall into any of our benefit categories for critical illness. However, the virus may lead to certain secondary conditions which may trigger a pay-out under the definitions within the current benefit categories. It is important to note that at this early stage, due to the speed of new information arriving, each claim will be assessed on its merits and a decision will be made based on the perceived impact on the health of the individual. Clients should also engage with their Liberty financial adviser to get professional financial advice. Click here to find out more. This article does not constitute tax, legal, financial, regulatory, accounting, technical or other advice. The material has been created for information purpose only and does not contain any personal recommendations. While every care has been taken in preparing this material, no member of Liberty gives any representation, warranty or undertaking and accepts no responsibility or liability as to the accuracy, or completeness, of the information presented. Please consult your financial adviser should you require advice of a financial nature and/or intermediary services. Liberty Group Limited is an Insurer and an Authorised Financial Services Provider (no 2409). For more details about benefits, definitions, guarantees, fees, tax, limitations, charges, premiums/contributions or other conditions and associated risks, please speak to a Liberty Financial Adviser or your Broker. This article was published in partnership with Liberty.