Atria Convergence Technologies (ACT), the largest Internet Service Provider (ISP) in South India, provides services in five states: Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and Delhi. ACT brings state-of-the-art services, including Fibernet (Internet over fiber optics), digital TV, and High-Definition TV (HDTV) to more than 2 million satisfied customers in the country. With a vision to become the most admired in-home entertainment, education, and interactive service company in India, ACT strives to create radical social transformation and empower customers. To achieve this vision, ACT has transformed the way they provide enterprise access and hotspot services, as the company grows its Internet Access Provider (IAP) business. Indeed, Wi-Fi hotspot services have become one of the company’s most popular offerings. ACT plans to develop urban Wi-Fi hotspots featuring comprehensive and outstanding informatization capabilities. By doing so, ACT aims to lay a solid foundation to drive innovation in cities, improving their overall strength and competitiveness. Against this backdrop, ACT is committed to bringing one-stop information services to governments, enterprises, households, and individuals, while building a high-quality business and living environment for customers. The widespread deployment of Wi-Fi hotspots will play a pivotal role in a city’s development, benefiting commercial enterprises, social management, and public services, as well as improving the quality of life for residents. In India, the rapid development of mobile Internet and the popularity of smart terminals have led to a surge in the number of connected devices at urban centers, such as stations and airports. As such, building outstanding Wi-Fi networks has become a top priority for the company. However, a host of challenges need to be addressed before Wi-Fi can be monetized, such as ensuring high-density access, achieving uninterrupted network access while roaming, and simplifying access authentication. To meet the requirements of densely populated areas, ACT has adopted Huawei’s industry-leading Wi-Fi 6 solution. This solution consists of a Wi-Fi network, a network management center, and a platform for operations. Leveraging Huawei Wi-Fi 6, ACT built Wi-Fi hotspots designed for high-density environments such as shopping malls, stations, and airports. Enterprises and residents get to enjoy a superior Wi-Fi experience, while the overall operation quality and efficiency of cities improved. In addition, Huawei’s solution promotes the monetization of Wi-Fi hotspots and accelerates ACT growth by offering: Click here for more information about Huawei Wi-Fi 6 products and solutions. This article was published in partnership with HUAWEI.