Revix, the fintech backed by JSE-listed Sabvest, is offering customers a remarkable opportunity to invest in gold risk-free this June. Sign up to Revix using the code GOLD and Revix will fully guarantee your gold investment for one week. At the end of your risk-free period, if your investment has increased in value, the profits are all yours. If your investment goes down in value, Revix will top-up your account back to its starting balance. Then for every friend you refer to the platform, Revix will give you both an added week completely risk-free. You can get up to 5 weeks of risk-free investing by inviting friends. Sean Sanders, CFA Charterholder and CEO of investment platform Revix added: “The unprecedented printing of money by governments is why it’s critically important today more than ever to hold inflationary hedges like gold in your investment portfolio. “Investments like gold can protect your hard-earned savings at times like these, meaning they will hold their value, or increase in value, rather than lose value like currency does when inflation occurs.” Gold is a safety net in terms of economic uncertainty and it acts as a hedge against inflation thanks to its limited supply and long trading history. So unlike central banks who are printing money at unprecedented levels, gold’s supply remains steady. This means gold acts as a rand hedge and is widely recommended as part of a diversified portfolio. It’s one of a handful of investments with a positive return in 2020 – gold prices are around $1,750 an ounce and have gained 16.4% so far in 2020 and 37.4% over the past 12 months. In South Africa, the economic outlook is worsening, with Investec saying 50% unemployment is possible, and that 54% of businesses may no longer exist by the end of the year if the lockdown continues. A GDP contraction of over 14.0% for 2020 is now a real possibility. So, what have governments done? This year a global total of $3.9 trillion (6.6% of global GDP) has been magically created by governments printing money – this is termed quantitative easing. What’s crazy is this figure is expected to go as high as $5.3 trillion by year-end. That’s $5,300,000,000,000… By printing money governments increase the currency supply, which is the root cause of price inflation – an increase in the price of goods and services, decreasing the buying power of your hard-earned money. Legendary U.S. hedge fund investor Paul Tutor Jones recently commented: “It [the printing of new money] has happened globally with such speed that even a market veteran like myself was left speechless. “We are witnessing the Great Monetary Inflation — an unprecedented expansion of every form of money unlike anything the developed world has ever seen. “I still remain a fan of gold. I predict it could also rally to $2,400 and possibly to $6,700 if we went back to the 1980 extremes.” Revix brings simplicity, trust and great customer service to the investing space. Revix’s easy to use online platform enables anyone to own the world’s top crypto assets in just a few clicks. For more information, please visit revix.com This article was published in partnership with Revix.