South Africa is preparing to move from alert level 4 to alert level 3 of the national lockdown before the end of the month. The Presidency said constituencies of the national economic development and labour council (NEDLAC) are working to achieve the country’s earliest possible migration to level 3. This was the first in a series of consultations led by President Cyril Ramaphosa between the government and social partners on the migration to level 3. Many provinces have also said they are eager to move to level 3, including the Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala said at a media briefing the province is ready to move to level 3, adding there are strong indications that all regions in KwaZulu-Natal may do so. “However, there is a caveat for that to happen and remain that way, everyone will have to comply with all the non-pharmaceutical approaches to preventing infections,” Zikalala said. Western Cape Premier Alan Winde said they will use the consultation process with Ramaphosa to put forward their position that the entire province must move down to level 3 as soon as possible, preferably before the end of May 2020. “With our healthcare system prepared, it is simply no longer possible to maintain level 4 restrictions anywhere in the Western Cape or South Africa,” said Winde. “The economic crisis caused by these restrictions has resulted in a life-threatening humanitarian disaster that will only worsen in the months ahead.” Apart from relaxing lockdown rules when moving to level 3, Ramaphosa said changes to level 4 regulations will also be announced. These will include expanding permitted business activities in the retail space and ecommerce, and reducing restrictions on exercise. The first of these announcements happened on Thursday with regulations allowing all goods to be sold through ecommerce platforms, except for alcohol and tobacco products. Many people also expect new regulations with more relaxed rules related to walking, jogging, and cycling to be published soon. Additionally, the government has published new regulations which allow trade-in purchases, car lease scheme returns, and wholesale trading of used cars. A summary of the initial level 4 lockdown rules, what has changed since 1 May, and what can be expected at level 3 is provided below. The level 3 rules are based on a Draft Framework for Sectors document, published on 25 April, which provides an overview of which services will be allowed at the five levels. It should be noted that this document is subject to revision and the final regulations may include changes.