The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) has rejected a proposal involving the sale of the .ORG top-level domain to a for-profit institution. “After completing extensive due diligence, the ICANN Board finds that withholding consent of the transfer of Public Interest Registry (PIR) from the Internet Society (ISOC) to Ethos Capital is reasonable, and the right thing to do,” ICANN stated. ICANN’s pronouncement comes after it faced heavy criticism for allowing the proposal to proceed as far as it has. There were concerns over the lack of transparency in Ethos Capital’s structure and a report that several of the people behind the deal to acquire the .ORG namespace are former ICANN officials. Concerns were also raised that the deal is just a typical debt-leveraged buyout. The company managing .ORG would have reportedly been left saddled with $360 million in debt to service if the deal were allowed to go through. ICANN said that it was presented with a unique and complex situation impacting one of the largest registries, as .ORG has more than 10.5 million domain names registered. “After completing its evaluation, the ICANN Board finds that the public interest is better served in withholding consent as a result of various factors that create unacceptable uncertainty over the future of the third-largest gTLD registry,” it stated. It highlighted the following factors which were considered in making its decision: “The entire Board stands by this decision. After thorough due diligence and robust discussion, we concluded that this is the right decision to take,” ICANN stated. “While recognizing the disappointment for some, we call upon all involved to find a healthy way forward, with a keen eye to provide the best possible support to the .ORG community.” The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) welcomed ICANN’s decision. “This decision by ICANN is a hard-fought victory for non-profit Internet users,” the EFF stated. “But the .ORG registry still needs a faithful steward, because the Internet Society has made clear it no longer wants that responsibility.” The EFF suggested that ICANN should hold an open consultation, similar to one it held in 2002, to select a new operator of the .ORG domain. This new operator must give non-profits a real voice in its governance, and a real guarantee against censorship and financial exploitation, the EFF said.