MultiChoice recently launched a new Add Movies bundle, which can be purchased in addition to standard DStv subscription. Add Movies is priced at R99 per month and includes access to M-Net Movies 1, M-Net Movies 2, and fliekNET. The package is available to Compact Plus, Compact, Access, EasyView, Indian, and Family customers. Premium subscribers already get access to these channels. There are several ways to add this service to your subscription – including the MyDStv app or the DStv website. Many DStv subscribers may opt to buy this add-on package for access to movies, but those with an existing Internet connection could be tempted to spend a similar amount on a subscription to Netflix. Netflix offers a growing catalogue of more than 5,000 shows, up to 4K video streaming, and multi-device support for a similar monthly price. We compared the pricing and content of DStv Add Movies packages with that of a Netflix subscription. The table shows all the titles airing on the M-Net Movies 1, M-Net Movies 2, and FliekNET channels from the morning of 14 October until midnight on 16 October. This serves to provide an idea of the shows which are available on a three-day basis via DStv’s Add Movies bundles. Repeats have been omitted. Netflix is available for the same monthly price as the DStv Add Movies package, but it is very different in many ways. The streaming service offers a wide and varied video-on-demand catalogue, as well as the ability to stream in much higher quality than any of DStv’s platforms. It does require an Internet connection and an appropriate amount of data, however, which can add significantly to the cost of the service. Below are the number of shows available on Netflix at the time of writing. The pricing for Netflix South Africa’s packages is shown in the table below. Note that Netflix has been testing Mobile and Mobile+ streaming plans in the country, but these only support streaming on portable devices and at lower resolutions. It is difficult for DStv’s Add Movies package to compete with Netflix Basic, especially considering the video-on-demand functionality of the latter. However, if you do not have an existing Internet connection, the price of this in addition to a Netflix subscription may be prohibitively large – making Add Movies the more affordable choice. Viewers should also note that Add Movies includes far more local Afrikaans content than Netflix, which may play a role in your purchasing decision dependent on your content preferences.