The COVID-19 pandemic has made it clear that you need to have a great laptop to ensure you stay productive in any situation. HP and AMD partnered many years ago to ensure that businesses have access to laptops and PCs that offer great performance while remaining secure and reliable – making them perfect for professionals. HP and AMD’s partnership has grown from strength to strength continues to be the benchmark for business-grade computer solutions. The most important consideration when buying a laptop is ensuring that it offers great performance. In this regard, what makes the partnership between HP and AMD so special is that two of the leading brands in the industry have joined forces to optimise the performance of their PCs. These laptops are built around AMD’s leading processor technology, which provides the ability to perform high-resource tasks. This is complemented by HP’s proven, market-leading ability to build laptops that offer great performance driven by the hardware used, the software HP offers, and fantastic build quality. Therefore, if you’re looking for a PC that can perform a vast array of tasks quickly and efficiently, HP and AMD’s range of devices is the perfect solution. HP devices stand out for their phenomenal security features. Its partnership with AMD results in even more powerful features, as the pair work together to optimise the vast range of security features both HP and AMD are known for. This ultimately results in devices that have an always-on, always-acting, resilient defence that is easy to manage. These security features range from areas as intricate as your BIOS, though to your front-facing applications such as your browser. AMD and HP have also worked to ensure that all its security solutions are designed in a way that makes them easy to integrate into your business’s IT environment. HP and AMD offer a great range of dual-developed PCs that can deal with whatever tasks you place in front of them. However, this doesn’t mean you will need to play exorbitant prices. By working together on these computers, HP and AMD have been able to reduce the cost of each device, which means your business is in a win-win situation – get a great PC, and save money doing so. Additionally, HP and AMD ensure that your PC always has the latest, cutting-edge drivers and software, ensuring you don’t have to worry about compatibility issues and other business continuity concerns. HP and AMD have built a website which provides further information and product details about the range of devices that the pair have built in partnership. It provides details regarding its extensive range of PCs, the features they offer, as well as a rage of resellers in South Africa. Click here to learn more about the PCs developed by HP and AMD. This article was published in partnership with AMD Ignite.