Mobile Wi-Fi (Mi-Fi) routers offer a convenient and flexible way to connect to the Internet for online working, learning, or entertainment. With these portable routers, you can wirelessly connect your smartphone, laptop, or tablet to the Internet using mobile data on a SIM card. As they come equipped with rechargeable batteries, you won’t require a power source to stay online either. This makes a Mi-Fi router ideal for connectivity on the go, or as a backup Internet solution during load-shedding. As a leading manufacturer of telecoms equipment, Huawei has produced a range of powerful and robust mobile routers – including the E5577 Mi-Fi Wireless Router. The E5577 router supports LTE download speeds of up to 150Mbps and upload speeds of 50Mbps, dependent on network conditions. It can connect up to 16 devices at a time, which means it will be able to serve enough users for a small meeting or classroom session. The router boasts a sizable 3,000mAh battery with an intelligent power management system to keep users connected for longer, too – meaning you’ll be able to get up to 6 hours of intensive use or 300 hours of standby time on a single charge. Charging is facilitated through a cable which plugs into the router’s micro-USB port and can be connected to a power adapter or any USB port – such as those found on laptops. The E5577 features a compact design, allowing you to easily carry it in your pocket or alongside your other essentials in a laptop bag, suitcase, backpack, or handbag. It comes with a refined and professional matte finish in black and white colour options, and boasts a high-quality 1.45-inch TFT LCD smart touchscreen. This provides an interactive menu with all the important info you need – including your current data usage, signal strength, network information, battery level, and more. You can also connect new devices quickly by scanning a QR code on its display. Telkom is now offering an excellent bundled deal where you can get the Huawei E5577 on a SmartBroadband 5GB Wireless deal for R99 per month. This bundle includes 10GB monthly data – split between 5GB anytime and 5GB night-time data – along with the Huawei E5577 Mi-Fi router. Click here to get the Huawei E5577 Mi-Fi router from Telkom now. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.