Huawei’s latest smartwatch, the Huawei Watch Fit, is now available in South Africa, offering a flagship smartwatch experience at an affordable price. The smartwatch sports a great selection of hardware as well as a range of built-in apps and interfaces for smartphone notifications. It delivers the experience of a powerful and capable smart wearable, as well as a stylish design and the exceptional battery life expected from Huawei devices. This places it in a favourable position to compete in the South African market, as it offers much greater value than other wearables. The new Huawei Watch Fit versus the Apple Watch Series 5 is therefore an apt comparison to make. Both the Huawei Watch Fit and Apple Watch Series 5 sport modern, sleek designs. The Watch Fit’s display is built from 2.5D curved glass with a 70% screen-to-body ratio, and its brightness can adjust automatically to your environment. The 40mm version of the Apple Watch Series 5 has a 1.78-inch screen with a pixel-per-pinch specification of 326 PPI – the same as the Huawei Watch Fit. The Huawei Watch Fit weighs only 21g compared with the Apple Watch Series 5’s 47.8g, however. Both wearables offer Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity, and the Apple Watch Series 5 is available with LTE connectivity – although this model is more expensive. The biggest difference between the two smartwatches, though, is their battery life. The Apple Watch Series 5 will last for 18 hours with regular use. The Huawei Watch Fit will last for up to 10 days with regular use – significantly outperforming the Apple wearable. Huawei’s Watch Fit offers a number of workouts and health monitoring features. There are 96 workout modes supported by the watch, including support for 11 professional sport modes and 85 custom workout modes. It has a built-in GPS sensor, AI heart rate algorithm, and a range of other sensors which facilitate real-time metrics and professional guidance. Like the Huawei Watch Fit, the Apple Watch offers a range of watch faces to choose from and includes a wide selection of workout modes. It ships with a number of applications and is compatible with iOS notifications. Impressively, the Huawei Watch Fit offers a similar range of functionality to the Watch Series 5 at less than half the price. The cheapest version of the 40mm Apple Watch Series 5 is priced at R6,999. The Huawei Watch Fit, on the other hand, is priced at only R2,999 from the Huawei Store. The Huawei Watch Fit outperforms the Apple Watch Series 5 significantly in terms of value, offering similar functionality while being far more affordable and offering 10-times the battery life. The specifications of the Apple Watch Series 5 40mm and Huawei Watch Fit are listed below. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.