ICASA has published the Invitation to Apply (ITA) for mobile networks wanting to bid for 4G and 5G spectrum. This document outlines the process for the spectrum auction, including the obligations placed upon mobile operators that have been assigned spectrum as a part of this auction. The closing date for applications is 15 January 2021, ICASA said. Spectrum is the medium through which data is transmitted, and is critical to ensuring that South Africans get high-speed and reliable 4G and 5G Internet access. “We believe that the release of spectrum will contribute to the reduction of the cost to communicate,” said MTN last year. “One of the benefits of a permanent allocation of spectrum will be aggressive infrastructure spending in building networks which will bring some relief to certain sections of the economy,” agreed Rain. ICASA chairperson Dr Keabetswe Modimoeng said that the licensing of the spectrum will bring major economic benefits to South Africa. “We have all been waiting for this day and through consultation with all relevant stakeholders, guided by the empowering legislation including the law of administrative justice and procedural fairness, the ICASA Council has taken a decision and approved that the licensing process for spectrum can now go-ahead,” said ICASA. ICASA has also confirmed that it is working to amend the COVID-19 National State of Disaster Regulations in order to extend the validity of emergency temporary spectrum until 31 March 2021. ICASA will make 406 MHz of spectrum available for the provision of mobile broadband services in South Africa. This spectrum will span the 700MHz, 800MHz, 2,600MHz, and 3,500MHz frequencies, and will be available in the following lot sizes and quantities, and at the following reserve prices: ICASA noted that the auctioning of the 2300MHz band has been placed on hold because it still needs to conduct a feasibility study on this frequency. The authority announced that a number of obligations will form part of the licence conditions of the Radio Frequency Spectrum License. A number of these are listed below. The full spectrum ITA is embedded below: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>