Even though South Africa has been moved to COVID-19 alert level 1, coronavirus cases are still being confirmed daily. Restaurants must therefore adhere to a long list of strict regulations, including limiting the number of patrons on their premises at a given time. South Africans are also still required to wear cloth masks in public places, use hand sanitiser, and are encouraged to maintain social distancing. These conditions can make it unpleasant to visit a restaurant, which is why the best, safest, and most convenient option is to order food from your favourite Pizza Perfect and get it delivered right to your door. Since lockdown level 4 Pizza Perfect got back to normal trading hours, offering its delicious food to customers. The fast food favourite offers its own dedicated delivery service to get your food delivered to you in no time. To ensure the safety of its staff and customers, Pizza Perfect is adhering to strict hygiene protocols, while making use of medical-grade hand and surface sanitisers. This means customers can rest assured that their food is being prepared in a clean and sanitised environment, with great care taken and safety in mind. As our country moved to Level 1, Pizza Perfect decided to Level up its Lockdown Loaded Deal. Pizza Perfect is currently running its Lockdown Loaded Deal Levelled Up, which will satisfy your tastebuds, and help you protect yourself and others from the spread of COVID-19. With this offer, customers can buy two large classic pizzas, 4 desserts, and a 2L cooldrink* and now get 2 free desserts extra. They will also receive a free 50ml bottle of hand sanitiser and a 3-ply collectable face mask for R289. “We value our customers’ support and want to do our part in keeping them safe during these times,” said Steven Psillos from Pizza Perfect. The delicious new desserts are offered in three flavours – jelly & custard, chocolate mousse and crème caramel (promotion differs at Halaal stores). If you can’t find a classic pizza for your taste, you can upgrade to a deluxe option at only R10 extra per pizza. Click here to visit pizzaperfect.co.za to find your nearest store to order from. Visuals are for depiction purposes only. Prices subject to change without notice. To view Ts & Cs, visit pizzaperfect.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Pizza Perfect.